# PostgreSQL Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver queries the PostgreSQL [statistics collector](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.6/monitoring-stats.html).

> :construction: This receiver is in **BETA**. Configuration fields and metric data model are subject to change.

## Prerequisites

This receiver supports PostgreSQL versions 9.6+

The monitoring user must be granted `SELECT` on `pg_stat_database`.

## Configuration

The following settings are required to create a database connection:
- `username`
- `password`

The following settings are optional:
- `endpoint` (default = `localhost:5432`): The endpoint of the postgresql server. Whether using TCP or Unix sockets, this value should be `host:port`. If `transport` is set to `unix`, the endpoint will internally be translated from `host:port` to `/host.s.PGSQL.port`
- `transport` (default = `tcp`): The transport protocol being used to connect to postgresql. Available options are `tcp` and `unix`.

- `databases` (default = `[]`): The list of databases for which the receiver will attempt to collect statistics. If an empty list is provided, the receiver will attempt to collect statistics for all non-template databases.

The following settings are also optional and nested under `tls` to help configure client transport security
- `insecure` (default = `false`): Whether to enable client transport security for the postgresql connection.
- `insecure_skip_verify` (default = `true`): Whether to validate server name and certificate if client transport security is enabled.
- `cert_file` (default = `$HOME/.postgresql/postgresql.crt`): A cerficate used for client authentication, if necessary.
- `key_file` (default = `$HOME/.postgresql/postgresql.key`): An SSL key used for client authentication, if necessary.
- `ca_file` (default = ""): A set of certificate authorities used to validate the database server's SSL certificate.

- `collection_interval` (default = `10s`): This receiver collects metrics on an interval. This value must be a string readable by Golang's [time.ParseDuration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration). Valid time units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h`.

### Example Configuration

```yaml
receivers:
  postgresql:
    endpoint: localhost:5432
    transport: tcp
    username: otel
    password: ${env:POSTGRESQL_PASSWORD}
    databases:
      - otel
    collection_interval: 10s
    tls:
      insecure: false
      insecure_skip_verify: false
      ca_file: /home/otel/authorities.crt
      cert_file: /home/otel/mypostgrescert.crt
      key_file: /home/otel/mypostgreskey.key
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented [here](./config.go) with detailed sample configurations [here](./testdata/config.yaml). TLS config is documented further under the [opentelemetry collector's configtls package](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md). 

## Metrics

Details about the metrics produced by this receiver can be found in [metadata.yaml](./metadata.yaml)

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib

### Feature gate configurations

#### Transition from metrics without "resource_attributes"

All metrics are being transitioning to moving the metric attributes `table` and `database` to resource attributes `postgresql.table` and `postgresql.database` respectively. This effort is motivated via the resource specification found [in the metrics data model](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/141a3ef0bf1eba0b6d260335bbe0ce7af9387cfc/specification/metrics/data-model.md#resource-attributes-1).

Eventually the move will be finalized, but there will be a transitional period where metrics will emit with resource attributes behind a feature gate.

##### Transition Schedule

1. v0.58.0, August 2022:

   - The version of the metrics receiver with resource attributes will be available via feature gates.
   - The old metrics with `table` and `database` metric attributes are deprecated with a warning.
   - `receiver.postgresql.emitMetricsWithResourceAttributes` is *disabled* by default.
   - `receiver.postgresql.emitMetricsWithoutResourceAttributes` is *enabled* by default.

2. v0.60.0, September 2022:

   - The new collection method with resource attributes is enabled by default. The old metrics with the `table` and `database` metric attributes is disabled by default.
   - `receiver.postgresql.emitMetricsWithResourceAttributes` is *enabled* by default.
   - `receiver.postgresql.emitMetricsWithoutResourceAttributes` is *disabled* by default.

3. v0.62.0, October 2022:

   - The feature gates are removed.
   - Metrics collection using resource attributes are always emitted
   - Metrics collection using the `database` and `table` metric attributes are no longer available.
