receiver/gitproviderreceiver/README.md, before:

# Git Provider Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [liatrio] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fgitprovider%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fgitprovider) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fgitprovider%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fgitprovider) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#development
[liatrio]: https://github.com/liatrio/liatrio-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section --> 

The Git Provider receiver scrapes data from Git vendors.

As a starting point, this receiver can infer many of the same core git
metrics across vendors, while being able to receive additional data specific to
vendors. 

The current default set of metrics common across all vendors can be found in
[documentation.md](./documentation.md).

These default metrics can be used as leading indicators to the DORA metrics; helping 
provide insight into modern-day engineering practices.

The current metrics available via scraping from GitHub are:
* repository branch count
* repository branch time 
* repository count
* repository branch count
* repository contributor count
* repository pull request time


## Getting Started

The collection interval is common to all scrapers and is set to 30 seconds by default.

> Note: Generally speaking, if the vendor allows for anonymous API calls, then you
> won't have to configure any authentication, but you may only see public repositories
> and organizations.

```yaml
gitprovider:
    collection_interval: <duration> #default = 30s
    scrapers:
        <scraper1>:
        <scraper2>:
        ...
```

A more complete example using the GitHub scraper with an authenticator is as follows:
```yaml
extensions:
    basicauth/github:
        client_auth:
            username: ${env:GH_USER}
            password: ${env:GH_PAT}

receivers:
    gitprovider:
        initial_delay: 1s
        collection_interval: 60s
        scrapers:
            github:
                github_org: myfancyorg
                auth:
                    authenticator: basicauth/github
service:
    extensions: [basicauth/github]
    pipelines:
        metrics:
            receivers: [..., gitprovider]
            processors: []
            exporters: [...]
```

This receiver is developed upstream in the [liatrio-otel-collector distribution](https://github.com/liatrio/liatrio-otel-collector)
where a quick start exists with an [example config](https://github.com/liatrio/liatrio-otel-collector/blob/main/testconfig/config.yaml)

The available scrapers are:
| Scraper  | Description             |
|----------|-------------------------|
| [github] | Git Metrics from [GitHub](https://github.com/) |

Commit message:

chore: fix metadata owners and broken markdown links to pass linting

receiver/gitproviderreceiver/README.md, after:

# Git Provider Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [liatrio] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fgitprovider%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fgitprovider) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fgitprovider%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fgitprovider) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@adrielp](https://www.github.com/adrielp), [@astencel-sumo](https://www.github.com/astencel-sumo) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#development
[liatrio]: https://github.com/liatrio/liatrio-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section --> 

The Git Provider receiver scrapes data from Git vendors.

As a starting point, this receiver can infer many of the same core git
metrics across vendors, while being able to receive additional data specific to
vendors. 

The current default set of metrics common across all vendors can be found in
[documentation.md](./documentation.md).

These default metrics can be used as leading indicators to the DORA metrics; helping 
provide insight into modern-day engineering practices.

The current metrics available via scraping from GitHub are:
* repository branch count
* repository branch time 
* repository count
* repository branch count
* repository contributor count
* repository pull request time


## Getting Started

The collection interval is common to all scrapers and is set to 30 seconds by default.

> Note: Generally speaking, if the vendor allows for anonymous API calls, then you
> won't have to configure any authentication, but you may only see public repositories
> and organizations.

```yaml
gitprovider:
    collection_interval: <duration> #default = 30s
    scrapers:
        <scraper1>:
        <scraper2>:
        ...
```

A more complete example using the GitHub scraper with an authenticator is as follows:
```yaml
extensions:
    basicauth/github:
        client_auth:
            username: ${env:GH_USER}
            password: ${env:GH_PAT}

receivers:
    gitprovider:
        initial_delay: 1s
        collection_interval: 60s
        scrapers:
            github:
                github_org: myfancyorg
                auth:
                    authenticator: basicauth/github
service:
    extensions: [basicauth/github]
    pipelines:
        metrics:
            receivers: [..., gitprovider]
            processors: []
            exporters: [...]
```

This receiver is developed upstream in the [liatrio-otel-collector distribution](https://github.com/liatrio/liatrio-otel-collector)
where a quick start exists with an [example config](https://github.com/liatrio/liatrio-otel-collector/blob/main/config/config.yaml)

The available scrapers are:
| Scraper  | Description             |
|----------|-------------------------|
| [github] | Git Metrics from [GitHub](https://github.com/) |
