exporter/azuredataexplorerexporter/README.md, before:

# Azure Data Explorer Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fazuredataexplorer%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fazuredataexplorer) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fazuredataexplorer%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fazuredataexplorer) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@asaharan](https://www.github.com/asaharan), [@ag-ramachandran](https://www.github.com/ag-ramachandran) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This exporter sends metrics, logs and trace data to [Azure Data Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/data-explorer/).

## Configuration

The following settings are required:

- `cluster_uri` (no default): The cluster name of the provisioned ADX cluster to ingest the data.
- `application_id` (no default): The client id to connect to the cluster and ingest data.
- `application_key` (no default): The cluster secret corresponding to the client id.
- `tenant_id` (no default): The tenant id where the application_id is referenced from.

The following settings can be optionally configured and have default values:
> Note that the database tables are expected to be created upfront before the exporter is in operation , the definition of these are in the section [Database and Table definition scripts](#database-and-table-definition-scripts)

- `db_name` (default = "oteldb"): The ADX database where the tables are present to ingest the data.
- `metrics_table_name` (default = OTELMetrics): The target table in the database `db_name` that stores exported metric data.
- `logs_table_name` (default = OTELLogs): The target table in the database `db_name` that stores exported logs data.
- `traces_table_name` (default = OTELTraces): The target table in the database `db_name` that stores exported traces data.

  Optionally the following table mappings can be specified if the data needs to be mapped to a different table on ADX. This uses json [table mapping](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/management/mappings#json-mapping) that can be used to map [attributes](#attribute-mapping) to target tables
- `metrics_table_json_mapping` (optional, no default): The table mapping name to be used for the table `db_name`.`metrics_table_name`
- `logs_table_json_mapping` (optional, no default): The table mapping name to be used for the table `db_name`.`logs_table_name`
- `traces_table_json_mapping` (optional, no default): The table mapping name to be used for the table `db_name`.`traces_table_name`
- `ingestion_type` (possible values=`queued` / `managed`,  default = queued): ADX ingest can happen in managed [streaming](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/management/streamingingestionpolicy) or [queued](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/management/batchingpolicy) modes.

> Note: [Streaming ingestion](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/ingest-data-streaming?tabs=azure-portal%2Ccsharp) has to be enabled on ADX [configure the ADX cluster] in case of `streaming` option. Refer the query below to check if streaming is enabled

```kql
.show database <DB-Name> policy streamingingestion
```

An example configuration is provided as follows:

```yaml
exporters:
  azuredataexplorer:
    # Kusto cluster uri
    cluster_uri: "https://CLUSTER.kusto.windows.net"
    # Client Id
    application_id: "f80da32c-108c-415c-a19e-643f461a677a"
    # The client secret for the client
    application_key: "xx-xx-xx-xx"
    # The tenant
    tenant_id: "21ff9e36-fbaa-43c8-98ba-00431ea10bc3"
    # Database for the logs
    db_name: "oteldb"
    # Metric table name
    metrics_table_name: "OTELMetrics"
    # Log table name
    logs_table_name: "OTELLogs"
    # Traces table
    traces_table_name: "OTELTraces"
    # Metric table mapping name
    metrics_table_json_mapping: "otelmetrics_mapping"
    # Log table mapping name
    logs_table_json_mapping: "otellogs_mapping"
    # Traces mapping table
    traces_table_json_mapping: "oteltraces_mapping"
    # Type of ingestion managed or queued
    ingestion_type : "managed"
```

## Attribute mapping

This exporter maps OpenTelemetry  [trace](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/sdk/), [metric](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/metrics/sdk/) and [log](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/logs/data-model/) attributes to specific structures in the ADX tables. These can then be extended by usage of [update policies](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/management/updatepolicy) in ADX if needed

### Traces

| ADX Table column              | Description / OpenTelemetry attribute                                                        |
| ----------------------------- |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| TraceId                     | A valid trace identifier is a 16-byte array with at least one non-zero byte.                   |
| SpanId                    | A valid span identifier is an 8-byte array with at least one non-zero byte.                      |
| ParentId                    | A parent spanId, for the current span                                                          |
| SpanName                    | The span name                                                                                  |
| SpanStatus             | [Status](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/api.md#set-status) of the Span. |
| SpanKind                   | [SpanKind](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/api.md#spankind) describes the relationship between the Span, its parents, and its children in a Trace |
| StartTime                   | A start timestamp                                                                               |
| EndTime                   | An end timestamp                                                                                  |
| TraceAttributes              | Custom metric [attributes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) set from the application. Also contains the [instrumentation scope](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) name and version  |
| ResourceAttributes            | The resource attributes JSON map as specified in open telemetry [resource semantics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/resource/semantic_conventions/)                                                                                   |
| Events                   | A list of timestamped [Events](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/api/#add-events) |
| Links                   | A list of [Links](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/api/#specifying-links) to other Spans |

### Metrics

| ADX Table column              | Description / OpenTelemetry attribute
| ----------------------------- |---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Timestamp                     | The timestamp of the datapoint                                                                    |
| MetricName                    | The name of the datapoint                                                                         |
| MetricType                    | The type / datapoint type of the metric (e.g. Sum, Histogram, Gauge etc.)                         |
| MetricUnit                    | Unit of measure of the metric                                                                     |
| MetricDescription             | Description about the metric                                                                      |
| MetricValue                   | The metric value measured for the datapoint                                                       |
| MetricAttributes              | Custom metric [attributes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) set from the application. Also contains the [instrumentation scope](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) name and version                                                                                                         |
| Host                          | The host.name extracted from [Host resource semantics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/resource/semantic_conventions/host/). If empty , the hostname of the exporter is used                                  |
| ResourceAttributes            | The resource attributes JSON map as specified in open telemetry [resource semantics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/resource/semantic_conventions/)                                                        |

### Logs

| ADX Table column              | Description / OpenTelemetry attribute                 |
| ----------------------------- |------------------------------------------------------ |
| Timestamp                     | The timestamp of the datapoint                        |
| ObservedTimestamp                    | Time when the event was observed.              |
| TraceId                    | Request trace id.                                        |
| SpanId                    | Request span id.                                          |
| SeverityText             | The severity text (also known as log level)                |
| SeverityNumber                   | [Numerical value](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/logs/data-model/#field-severitynumber) of the severity. |
| Body                          | The body of the log record.                           |
| LogsAttributes              | Custom metric [attributes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) set from the application. Also contains the [instrumentation scope](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) name and version  |
| ResourceAttributes            | The resource attributes JSON map as specified in open telemetry [resource semantics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/resource/semantic_conventions/)                                           |

### Database and Table definition scripts

The following tables need to be created in the database specified in the configuration.

```kql
.create-merge table <Logs-Table-Name> (Timestamp:datetime, ObservedTimestamp:datetime, TraceID:string, SpanID:string, SeverityText:string, SeverityNumber:int, Body:string, ResourceAttributes:dynamic, LogsAttributes:dynamic) 

.create-merge table <Metrics-Table-Name> (Timestamp:datetime, MetricName:string, MetricType:string, MetricUnit:string, MetricDescription:string, MetricValue:real, Host:string, ResourceAttributes:dynamic,MetricAttributes:dynamic) 

.create-merge table <Traces-Table-Name> (TraceID:string, SpanID:string, ParentID:string, SpanName:string, SpanStatus:string, SpanKind:string, StartTime:datetime, EndTime:datetime, ResourceAttributes:dynamic, TraceAttributes:dynamic, Events:dynamic, Links:dynamic) 

//Enable streaming ingestion( for managed streaming) for the created tables using
.alter table <Table-Name> policy streamingingestion enable

```

### Optional configurations/Enhancements suggestions

- Using update policies , the collected data can further be processed as per application need. The following is an example where histogram metrics are exported to a histo specific table (buckets and aggregates)

```kql
.create table HistoBucketData (Timestamp: datetime, MetricName: string , MetricType: string , Value: double, LE: double, Host: string , ResourceAttributes: dynamic, MetricAttributes: dynamic )

.create function 
with ( docstring = "Histo bucket processing function", folder = "UpdatePolicyFunctions") ExtractHistoColumns()
{
    OTELMetrics
    | where MetricType == 'Histogram' and MetricName has "_bucket"
    | extend f=parse_json(MetricAttributes)
    | extend le=todouble(f.le)
    | extend M_name=replace_string(MetricName, '_bucket','')
    | project Timestamp, MetricName=M_name, MetricType, MetricValue, LE=le, Host, ResourceAttributes, MetricAttributes
}

.alter table HistoBucketData policy update 
@'[{ "IsEnabled": true, "Source": "OTELMetrics","Query": "ExtractHistoColumns()", "IsTransactional": false, "PropagateIngestionProperties": false}]'

//Below code creates a table which only contains count and sum values of Histogram metric type and attaches an update policy to it

 .create table HistoData (Timestamp: datetime, MetricName: string , MetricType: string , Count: double, Sum: double, Host: string , ResourceAttributes: dynamic, MetricAttributes: dynamic)

 .create function 
with ( docstring = "Histo sum count processing function", folder = "UpdatePolicyFunctions") ExtractHistoCountColumns()
{
   OTELMetrics
    | where MetricType =='Histogram'
    | where MetricName has "_count"
    | extend Count=MetricValue
    | extend M_name=replace_string(MetricName, '_bucket','')
    | join kind=inner (OTELMetrics
    | where MetricType =='Histogram'
    | where MetricName has "_sum"
    | project Sum = MetricValue , Timestamp)
 on Timestamp | project Timestamp, MetricName=M_name, MetricType, Count, Sum, Host, ResourceAttributes, MetricAttributes
}

.alter table HistoData policy update 
@'[{ "IsEnabled": true, "Source": "RawMetricsData","Query": "ExtractHistoCountColumns()", "IsTransactional": false, "PropagateIngestionProperties": false}]'
```

Commit message:

Feature/azure data explorer managed identity (#24058)
**Description:**
Add support for ManagedIdentity. This enables passwordless config for
the ADX sink

**Link to tracking Issue:**  
#21924 

**Testing:** Manually tested

**Documentation:** Updated README documentation

exporter/azuredataexplorerexporter/README.md, after:

# Azure Data Explorer Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fazuredataexplorer%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fazuredataexplorer) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fazuredataexplorer%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fazuredataexplorer) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@asaharan](https://www.github.com/asaharan), [@ag-ramachandran](https://www.github.com/ag-ramachandran) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This exporter sends metrics, logs and trace data to
  [Azure Data Explorer](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-explorer),
  [Azure Synapse Data Explorer](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/synapse-analytics/data-explorer/data-explorer-overview) and
  [Real time analytics in Fabric](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/fabric/real-time-analytics/overview)
## Configuration

The following settings are required:

- `cluster_uri` (no default): The cluster name of the provisioned ADX cluster to ingest the data.
- `application_id` (no default): The client id to connect to the cluster and ingest data.
- `application_key` (no default): The cluster secret corresponding to the client id.
- `tenant_id` (no default): The tenant id where the application_id is referenced from.

The following settings can be optionally configured and have default values:
> Note that the database tables are expected to be created upfront before the exporter is in operation , the definition of these are in the section [Database and Table definition scripts](#database-and-table-definition-scripts)

- `db_name` (default = "oteldb"): The ADX database where the tables are present to ingest the data.
- `metrics_table_name` (default = OTELMetrics): The target table in the database `db_name` that stores exported metric data.
- `logs_table_name` (default = OTELLogs): The target table in the database `db_name` that stores exported logs data.
- `traces_table_name` (default = OTELTraces): The target table in the database `db_name` that stores exported traces data.

  Optionally the following table mappings can be specified if the data needs to be mapped to a different table on ADX. This uses json [table mapping](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/management/mappings#json-mapping) that can be used to map [attributes](#attribute-mapping) to target tables
- `metrics_table_json_mapping` (optional, no default): The table mapping name to be used for the table `db_name`.`metrics_table_name`
- `logs_table_json_mapping` (optional, no default): The table mapping name to be used for the table `db_name`.`logs_table_name`
- `traces_table_json_mapping` (optional, no default): The table mapping name to be used for the table `db_name`.`traces_table_name`
- `ingestion_type` (possible values=`queued` / `managed`,  default = queued): ADX ingest can happen in managed [streaming](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/management/streamingingestionpolicy) or [queued](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/management/batchingpolicy) modes.

> Note: [Streaming ingestion](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/ingest-data-streaming?tabs=azure-portal%2Ccsharp) has to be enabled on ADX [configure the ADX cluster] in case of `streaming` option. Refer the query below to check if streaming is enabled

```kql
.show database <DB-Name> policy streamingingestion
```

An example configuration is provided as follows:

```yaml
exporters:
  azuredataexplorer:
    # Kusto cluster uri
    cluster_uri: "https://CLUSTER.kusto.windows.net"
    # Client Id
    application_id: "f80da32c-108c-415c-a19e-643f461a677a"
    # The client secret for the client
    application_key: "xx-xx-xx-xx"
    # The tenant
    tenant_id: "21ff9e36-fbaa-43c8-98ba-00431ea10bc3"
    # A managed identity id to authenticate with. 
    # Set to "system" for system-assigned managed identity.
    # Set the MI client Id (GUID) for user-assigned managed identity.
    managed_identity_id: "z80da32c-108c-415c-a19e-643f461a677a"
    # Database for the logs
    db_name: "oteldb"
    # Metric table name
    metrics_table_name: "OTELMetrics"
    # Log table name
    logs_table_name: "OTELLogs"
    # Traces table
    traces_table_name: "OTELTraces"
    # Metric table mapping name
    metrics_table_json_mapping: "otelmetrics_mapping"
    # Log table mapping name
    logs_table_json_mapping: "otellogs_mapping"
    # Traces mapping table
    traces_table_json_mapping: "oteltraces_mapping"
    # Type of ingestion managed or queued
    ingestion_type : "managed"
```

## Attribute mapping

This exporter maps OpenTelemetry  [trace](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/sdk/), [metric](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/metrics/sdk/) and [log](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/logs/data-model/) attributes to specific structures in the ADX tables. These can then be extended by usage of [update policies](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/management/updatepolicy) in ADX if needed

### Traces

| ADX Table column              | Description / OpenTelemetry attribute                                                        |
| ----------------------------- |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| TraceId                     | A valid trace identifier is a 16-byte array with at least one non-zero byte.                   |
| SpanId                    | A valid span identifier is an 8-byte array with at least one non-zero byte.                      |
| ParentId                    | A parent spanId, for the current span                                                          |
| SpanName                    | The span name                                                                                  |
| SpanStatus             | [Status](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/api.md#set-status) of the Span. |
| SpanKind                   | [SpanKind](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/api.md#spankind) describes the relationship between the Span, its parents, and its children in a Trace |
| StartTime                   | A start timestamp                                                                               |
| EndTime                   | An end timestamp                                                                                  |
| TraceAttributes              | Custom metric [attributes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) set from the application. Also contains the [instrumentation scope](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) name and version  |
| ResourceAttributes            | The resource attributes JSON map as specified in open telemetry [resource semantics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/resource/semantic_conventions/)                                                                                   |
| Events                   | A list of timestamped [Events](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/api/#add-events) |
| Links                   | A list of [Links](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/api/#specifying-links) to other Spans |

### Metrics

| ADX Table column              | Description / OpenTelemetry attribute
| ----------------------------- |---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Timestamp                     | The timestamp of the datapoint                                                                    |
| MetricName                    | The name of the datapoint                                                                         |
| MetricType                    | The type / datapoint type of the metric (e.g. Sum, Histogram, Gauge etc.)                         |
| MetricUnit                    | Unit of measure of the metric                                                                     |
| MetricDescription             | Description about the metric                                                                      |
| MetricValue                   | The metric value measured for the datapoint                                                       |
| MetricAttributes              | Custom metric [attributes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) set from the application. Also contains the [instrumentation scope](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) name and version                                                                                                         |
| Host                          | The host.name extracted from [Host resource semantics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/resource/semantic_conventions/host/). If empty , the hostname of the exporter is used                                  |
| ResourceAttributes            | The resource attributes JSON map as specified in open telemetry [resource semantics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/resource/semantic_conventions/)                                                        |

### Logs

| ADX Table column              | Description / OpenTelemetry attribute                 |
| ----------------------------- |------------------------------------------------------ |
| Timestamp                     | The timestamp of the datapoint                        |
| ObservedTimestamp                    | Time when the event was observed.              |
| TraceId                    | Request trace id.                                        |
| SpanId                    | Request span id.                                          |
| SeverityText             | The severity text (also known as log level)                |
| SeverityNumber                   | [Numerical value](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/logs/data-model/#field-severitynumber) of the severity. |
| Body                          | The body of the log record.                           |
| LogsAttributes              | Custom metric [attributes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) set from the application. Also contains the [instrumentation scope](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/common/#attribute) name and version  |
| ResourceAttributes            | The resource attributes JSON map as specified in open telemetry [resource semantics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/resource/semantic_conventions/)                                           |

### Database and Table definition scripts

The following tables need to be created in the database specified in the configuration.

```kql
.create-merge table <Logs-Table-Name> (Timestamp:datetime, ObservedTimestamp:datetime, TraceID:string, SpanID:string, SeverityText:string, SeverityNumber:int, Body:string, ResourceAttributes:dynamic, LogsAttributes:dynamic) 

.create-merge table <Metrics-Table-Name> (Timestamp:datetime, MetricName:string, MetricType:string, MetricUnit:string, MetricDescription:string, MetricValue:real, Host:string, ResourceAttributes:dynamic,MetricAttributes:dynamic) 

.create-merge table <Traces-Table-Name> (TraceID:string, SpanID:string, ParentID:string, SpanName:string, SpanStatus:string, SpanKind:string, StartTime:datetime, EndTime:datetime, ResourceAttributes:dynamic, TraceAttributes:dynamic, Events:dynamic, Links:dynamic) 

//Enable streaming ingestion( for managed streaming) for the created tables using
.alter table <Table-Name> policy streamingingestion enable

```

### Optional configurations/Enhancements suggestions

- Using update policies , the collected data can further be processed as per application need. The following is an example where histogram metrics are exported to a histo specific table (buckets and aggregates)

```kql
.create table HistoBucketData (Timestamp: datetime, MetricName: string , MetricType: string , Value: double, LE: double, Host: string , ResourceAttributes: dynamic, MetricAttributes: dynamic )

.create function 
with ( docstring = "Histo bucket processing function", folder = "UpdatePolicyFunctions") ExtractHistoColumns()
{
    OTELMetrics
    | where MetricType == 'Histogram' and MetricName has "_bucket"
    | extend f=parse_json(MetricAttributes)
    | extend le=todouble(f.le)
    | extend M_name=replace_string(MetricName, '_bucket','')
    | project Timestamp, MetricName=M_name, MetricType, MetricValue, LE=le, Host, ResourceAttributes, MetricAttributes
}

.alter table HistoBucketData policy update 
@'[{ "IsEnabled": true, "Source": "OTELMetrics","Query": "ExtractHistoColumns()", "IsTransactional": false, "PropagateIngestionProperties": false}]'

//Below code creates a table which only contains count and sum values of Histogram metric type and attaches an update policy to it

 .create table HistoData (Timestamp: datetime, MetricName: string , MetricType: string , Count: double, Sum: double, Host: string , ResourceAttributes: dynamic, MetricAttributes: dynamic)

 .create function 
with ( docstring = "Histo sum count processing function", folder = "UpdatePolicyFunctions") ExtractHistoCountColumns()
{
   OTELMetrics
    | where MetricType =='Histogram'
    | where MetricName has "_count"
    | extend Count=MetricValue
    | extend M_name=replace_string(MetricName, '_bucket','')
    | join kind=inner (OTELMetrics
    | where MetricType =='Histogram'
    | where MetricName has "_sum"
    | project Sum = MetricValue , Timestamp)
 on Timestamp | project Timestamp, MetricName=M_name, MetricType, Count, Sum, Host, ResourceAttributes, MetricAttributes
}

.alter table HistoData policy update 
@'[{ "IsEnabled": true, "Source": "RawMetricsData","Query": "ExtractHistoCountColumns()", "IsTransactional": false, "PropagateIngestionProperties": false}]'
```
