receiver/sqlqueryreceiver/README.md, before:

# SQL Query Receiver (Alpha)

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
|               | [development]: logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq], [splunk], [sumo] |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#development
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The SQL Query Receiver uses custom SQL queries to generate metrics from a database connection.

> :construction: This receiver is in **ALPHA**. Behavior, configuration fields, and metric data model are subject to
> change.

## Configuration

The configuration supports the following top-level fields:

- `driver`(required): The name of the database driver: one of _postgres_, _mysql_, _snowflake_, _sqlserver_, _hdb_ (SAP
  HANA), or _oracle_ (Oracle DB).
- `datasource`(required): The datasource value passed to [sql.Open](https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql#Open). This is
  a driver-specific string usually consisting of at least a database name and connection information. This is sometimes
  referred to as the "connection string" in driver documentation.
  e.g. _host=localhost port=5432 user=me password=s3cr3t sslmode=disable_
- `queries`(required): A list of queries, where a query is a sql statement and one or more `logs` and/or `metrics` sections (details below).
- `collection_interval`(optional): The time interval between query executions. Defaults to _10s_.
- `storage` (optional, default `""`): The ID of a [storage][storage_extension] extension to be used to [track processed results](#tracking-processed-results).

[storage_extension]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/storage/filestorage

### Queries

A _query_ consists of a sql statement and one or more `logs` and/or `metrics` section.
At least one `logs` or one `metrics` section is required.
Note that technically you can put both `logs` and `metrics` sections in a single query section,
but it's probably not a real world use case, as the requirements for logs and metrics queries
are quite different.

Additionally, each `query` section supports the following properties:

- `tracking_column` (optional, default `""`) Applies only to logs. In case of a parameterized query,
  defines the column to retrieve the value of the parameter on subsequent query runs.
  See the below section [Tracking processed results](#tracking-processed-results).
- `tracking_start_value` (optional, default `""`) Applies only to logs. In case of a parameterized query, defines the initial value for the parameter.
  See the below section [Tracking processed results](#tracking-processed-results).

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  sqlquery:
    driver: postgres
    datasource: "host=localhost port=5432 user=postgres password=s3cr3t sslmode=disable"
    queries:
      - sql: "select * from my_logs where log_id > $$1"
        tracking_start_value: "10000"
        tracking_column: log_id
        logs:
          - body_column: log_body
      - sql: "select count(*) as count, genre from movie group by genre"
        metrics:
          - metric_name: movie.genres
            value_column: "count"
```

#### Logs Queries

The `logs` section is in development.

- `body_column` (required) defines the column to use as the log record's body.

##### Tracking processed results

With the default configuration and a non-parameterized logs query like `select * from my_logs`,
the receiver will run the same query every collection interval, which can cause reading the same rows
over and over again, unless there's an external actor removing the old rows from the `my_logs` table.

To prevent reading the same rows on every collection interval, use a parameterized query like `select * from my_logs where id_column > ?`,
together with the `tracking_start_value` and `tracking_column` configuration properties.
The receiver will use the configured `tracking_start_value` as the value for the query parameter when running the query for the first time.
After each query run, the receiver will store the value of the `tracking_column` from the last row of the result set and use it as the value for the query parameter on next collection interval. To prevent duplicate log downloads, make sure to sort the query results in ascending order by the tracking_column value.

Note that the notation for the parameter depends on the database backend. For example in MySQL this is `?`, in PostgreSQL this is `$1`, in Oracle this is any string identifier starting with a colon `:`, for example `:my_parameter`.

Use the `storage` configuration property of the receiver to persist the tracking value across collector restarts.

#### Metrics queries

Each `metrics` section consists of a
`metric_name`, a `value_column`, and additional optional fields.
Each _metric_ in the configuration will produce one OTel metric per row returned from its sql query.

- `metric_name`(required): the name assigned to the OTel metric.
- `value_column`(required): the column name in the returned dataset used to set the value of the metric's datapoint.
  This may be case-sensitive, depending on the driver (e.g. Oracle DB).
- `attribute_columns`(optional): a list of column names in the returned dataset used to set attibutes on the datapoint.
  These attributes may be case-sensitive, depending on the driver (e.g. Oracle DB).
- `data_type` (optional): can be `gauge` or `sum`; defaults to `gauge`.
- `value_type` (optional): can be `int` or `double`; defaults to `int`.
- `monotonic` (optional): boolean; whether a cumulative sum's value is monotonically increasing (i.e. never rolls over
  or resets); defaults to false.
- `aggregation` (optional): only applicable for `data_type=sum`; can be `cumulative` or `delta`; defaults
  to `cumulative`.
- `description` (optional): the description applied to the metric.
- `unit` (optional): the units applied to the metric.
- `static_attributes` (optional): static attributes applied to the metrics

### Example

```yaml
receivers:
  sqlquery:
    driver: postgres
    datasource: "host=localhost port=5432 user=postgres password=s3cr3t sslmode=disable"
    storage: file_storage
    queries:
      - sql: "select * from my_logs where log_id > $$1"
        tracking_start_value: "10000"
        tracking_column: log_id
        logs:
          - body_column: log_body
      - sql: "select count(*) as count, genre from movie group by genre"
        metrics:
          - metric_name: movie.genres
            value_column: "count"
            attribute_columns: ["genre"]
            static_attributes:
              dbinstance: mydbinstance
```

Given a `movie` table with three rows:

| name      | genre  |
| --------- | ------ |
| E.T.      | sci-fi |
| Star Wars | sci-fi |
| Die Hard  | action |

If there are two rows returned from the query `select count(*) as count, genre from movie group by genre`:

| count | genre  |
| ----- | ------ |
| 2     | sci-fi |
| 1     | action |

then the above config will produce two metrics at each collection interval:

```
Metric #0
Descriptor:
     -> Name: movie.genres
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
Data point attributes:
     -> genre: STRING(sci-fi)
     -> dbinstance: STRING(mydbinstance)
Value: 2

Metric #1
Descriptor:
     -> Name: movie.genres
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
Data point attributes:
     -> genre: STRING(action)
     -> dbinstance: STRING(mydbinstance)
Value: 1
```

#### NULL values

Avoid queries that produce any NULL values. If a query produces a NULL value, a warning will be logged. Furthermore,
if a configuration references the column that produces a NULL value, an additional error will be logged. However, in
either case, the receiver will continue to operate.

#### Oracle DB Driver Example

Refer to the config file [provided](./testdata/oracledb-receiver-config.yaml) for an example of using the
Oracle DB driver to connect and query the same table schema and contents as the example above.
The Oracle DB driver documentation can be found [here.](https://github.com/sijms/go-ora)
Another usage example is the `go_ora`
example [here.](https://blogs.oracle.com/developers/post/connecting-a-go-application-to-oracle-database)

Commit message:

[receiver/sqlquery] Add support of optional Start and Stop Timestamp (#19160)
In this PR, support for Start and Stop Timestamp to be picked up from
the metrics stored in the rows is added. This will allow SQL queries to
be more expressive and allows users to define the period of aggregation
which is not only dependent on the default system time set upon
processing.

**Link to tracking Issue:** 
#18925 
#14146

---------

Co-authored-by: Juraci Paixão Kröhling <juraci.github@kroehling.de>

receiver/sqlqueryreceiver/README.md, after:

# SQL Query Receiver (Alpha)

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
|               | [development]: logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq], [splunk], [sumo] |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#development
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The SQL Query Receiver uses custom SQL queries to generate metrics from a database connection.

> :construction: This receiver is in **ALPHA**. Behavior, configuration fields, and metric data model are subject to
> change.

## Configuration

The configuration supports the following top-level fields:

- `driver`(required): The name of the database driver: one of _postgres_, _mysql_, _snowflake_, _sqlserver_, _hdb_ (SAP
  HANA), or _oracle_ (Oracle DB).
- `datasource`(required): The datasource value passed to [sql.Open](https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql#Open). This is
  a driver-specific string usually consisting of at least a database name and connection information. This is sometimes
  referred to as the "connection string" in driver documentation.
  e.g. _host=localhost port=5432 user=me password=s3cr3t sslmode=disable_
- `queries`(required): A list of queries, where a query is a sql statement and one or more `logs` and/or `metrics` sections (details below).
- `collection_interval`(optional): The time interval between query executions. Defaults to _10s_.
- `storage` (optional, default `""`): The ID of a [storage][storage_extension] extension to be used to [track processed results](#tracking-processed-results).

[storage_extension]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/storage/filestorage

### Queries

A _query_ consists of a sql statement and one or more `logs` and/or `metrics` section.
At least one `logs` or one `metrics` section is required.
Note that technically you can put both `logs` and `metrics` sections in a single query section,
but it's probably not a real world use case, as the requirements for logs and metrics queries
are quite different.

Additionally, each `query` section supports the following properties:

- `tracking_column` (optional, default `""`) Applies only to logs. In case of a parameterized query,
  defines the column to retrieve the value of the parameter on subsequent query runs.
  See the below section [Tracking processed results](#tracking-processed-results).
- `tracking_start_value` (optional, default `""`) Applies only to logs. In case of a parameterized query, defines the initial value for the parameter.
  See the below section [Tracking processed results](#tracking-processed-results).

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  sqlquery:
    driver: postgres
    datasource: "host=localhost port=5432 user=postgres password=s3cr3t sslmode=disable"
    queries:
      - sql: "select * from my_logs where log_id > $$1"
        tracking_start_value: "10000"
        tracking_column: log_id
        logs:
          - body_column: log_body
      - sql: "select count(*) as count, genre from movie group by genre"
        metrics:
          - metric_name: movie.genres
            value_column: "count"
```

#### Logs Queries

The `logs` section is in development.

- `body_column` (required) defines the column to use as the log record's body.

##### Tracking processed results

With the default configuration and a non-parameterized logs query like `select * from my_logs`,
the receiver will run the same query every collection interval, which can cause reading the same rows
over and over again, unless there's an external actor removing the old rows from the `my_logs` table.

To prevent reading the same rows on every collection interval, use a parameterized query like `select * from my_logs where id_column > ?`,
together with the `tracking_start_value` and `tracking_column` configuration properties.
The receiver will use the configured `tracking_start_value` as the value for the query parameter when running the query for the first time.
After each query run, the receiver will store the value of the `tracking_column` from the last row of the result set and use it as the value for the query parameter on next collection interval. To prevent duplicate log downloads, make sure to sort the query results in ascending order by the tracking_column value.

Note that the notation for the parameter depends on the database backend. For example in MySQL this is `?`, in PostgreSQL this is `$1`, in Oracle this is any string identifier starting with a colon `:`, for example `:my_parameter`.

Use the `storage` configuration property of the receiver to persist the tracking value across collector restarts.

#### Metrics queries

Each `metrics` section consists of a
`metric_name`, a `value_column`, and additional optional fields.
Each _metric_ in the configuration will produce one OTel metric per row returned from its sql query.

- `metric_name`(required): the name assigned to the OTel metric.
- `value_column`(required): the column name in the returned dataset used to set the value of the metric's datapoint.
  This may be case-sensitive, depending on the driver (e.g. Oracle DB).
- `attribute_columns`(optional): a list of column names in the returned dataset used to set attibutes on the datapoint.
  These attributes may be case-sensitive, depending on the driver (e.g. Oracle DB).
- `data_type` (optional): can be `gauge` or `sum`; defaults to `gauge`.
- `value_type` (optional): can be `int` or `double`; defaults to `int`.
- `monotonic` (optional): boolean; whether a cumulative sum's value is monotonically increasing (i.e. never rolls over
  or resets); defaults to false.
- `aggregation` (optional): only applicable for `data_type=sum`; can be `cumulative` or `delta`; defaults
  to `cumulative`.
- `description` (optional): the description applied to the metric.
- `unit` (optional): the units applied to the metric.
- `static_attributes` (optional): static attributes applied to the metrics.
- `start_ts_column` (optional): the name of the column containing the start timestamp, the value of which is applied to 
  the metric's start timestamp (otherwise the current time is used). Only applies if the metric is of type cumulative 
  sum.
- `ts_column` (optional): the name of the column containing the timestamp, the value of which is applied to the 
  metric's timestamp. This can be current timestamp depending upon the time of last recorded metric's datapoint.

### Example

```yaml
receivers:
  sqlquery:
    driver: postgres
    datasource: "host=localhost port=5432 user=postgres password=s3cr3t sslmode=disable"
    storage: file_storage
    queries:
      - sql: "select * from my_logs where log_id > $$1"
        tracking_start_value: "10000"
        tracking_column: log_id
        logs:
          - body_column: log_body
      - sql: "select count(*) as count, genre from movie group by genre"
        metrics:
          - metric_name: movie.genres
            value_column: "count"
            attribute_columns: ["genre"]
            static_attributes:
              dbinstance: mydbinstance
```

Given a `movie` table with three rows:

| name      | genre  |
| --------- | ------ |
| E.T.      | sci-fi |
| Star Wars | sci-fi |
| Die Hard  | action |

If there are two rows returned from the query `select count(*) as count, genre from movie group by genre`:

| count | genre  |
| ----- | ------ |
| 2     | sci-fi |
| 1     | action |

then the above config will produce two metrics at each collection interval:

```
Metric #0
Descriptor:
     -> Name: movie.genres
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
Data point attributes:
     -> genre: STRING(sci-fi)
     -> dbinstance: STRING(mydbinstance)
Value: 2

Metric #1
Descriptor:
     -> Name: movie.genres
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
Data point attributes:
     -> genre: STRING(action)
     -> dbinstance: STRING(mydbinstance)
Value: 1
```

#### NULL values

Avoid queries that produce any NULL values. If a query produces a NULL value, a warning will be logged. Furthermore,
if a configuration references the column that produces a NULL value, an additional error will be logged. However, in
either case, the receiver will continue to operate.

#### Oracle DB Driver Example

Refer to the config file [provided](./testdata/oracledb-receiver-config.yaml) for an example of using the
Oracle DB driver to connect and query the same table schema and contents as the example above.
The Oracle DB driver documentation can be found [here.](https://github.com/sijms/go-ora)
Another usage example is the `go_ora`
example [here.](https://blogs.oracle.com/developers/post/connecting-a-go-application-to-oracle-database)
