pkg/stanza/docs/operators/journald_input.md, before:

## `journald_input` operator

The `journald_input` operator reads logs from the systemd journal using the `journalctl` binary, which must be in the `$PATH` of the agentt.

By default, `journalctl` will read from `/run/journal` or `/var/log/journal`. If either `directory` or `files` are set, `journalctl` will instead read from those.

The `journald_input` operator will use the `__REALTIME_TIMESTAMP` field of the journald entry as the parsed entry's timestamp. All other fields are added to the entry's body as returned by `journalctl`.

### Configuration Fields

| Field             | Default          | Description |
| ---               | ---              | ---         |
| `id`              | `journald_input` | A unique identifier for the operator. |
| `output`          | Next in pipeline | The connected operator(s) that will receive all outbound entries. |
| `directory`       |                  | A directory containing journal files to read entries from. |
| `files`           |                  | A list of journal files to read entries from. |
| `units`           |                  | A list of units to read entries from. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples, if you want to use it together with `matches` and/or `priority`. |
| `matches`         |                  | A list of matches to read entries from. See [Matches](#matches) and [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples. |
| `priority`        | `info`           | Filter output by message priorities or priority ranges. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples, if you want to use it together with `units` and/or `matches`. |
| `start_at`        | `end`            | At startup, where to start reading logs from the file. Options are `beginning` or `end`. |
| `attributes`      | {}               | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's attributes. |
| `resource`        | {}               | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's resource. |

### Example Configurations

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  units:
    - ssh
    - kubelet
  priority: info
```

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  priority: emerg..err
```

#### Matches

The following configuration:

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  matches:
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: ssh
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: kubelet
      _UID: "1000"
```

will be passed to `journalctl` as the following arguments: `journalctl ... _SYSTEMD_UNIT=ssh + _SYSTEMD_UNIT=kubelet _UID=1000`,
which is going to retrieve all entries which match at least one of the following rules:

- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `ssh`
- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` and `_UID` is `1000`

#### Multiple filtering options

In case of using multiple following options, conditions between them are logically `AND`ed and within them are logically `OR`ed:

```text
( priority )
AND
( units[0] OR units[1] OR units[2] OR ... units[U] )
AND
( matches[0] OR matches[1] OR matches[2] OR ... matches[M] )
```

Consider the following example:

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  matches:
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: ssh
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: kubelet
      _UID: "1000"
  units:
    - kubelet
    - systemd
  priority: info
```

The above configuration will be passed to `journalctl` as the following arguments
`journalctl ... --priority=info --unit=kubelet --unit=systemd _SYSTEMD_UNIT=ssh + _SYSTEMD_UNIT=kubelet _UID=1000`,
which is going to effectively retrieve all entries which matches the following set of rules:

- `_PRIORITY` is `6`, and
- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` or `systemd`, and
- entry matches at least one of the following rules:

  - `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `ssh`
  - `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` and `_UID` is `1000`

Note, that if you use some fields which aren't associated with an entry, the entry will always be filtered out.
Also be careful about using unit name in `matches` configuration, as for the above example, none of the entry for `ssh` and `systemd` is going to be retrieved.

### Simple journald input

Configuration:
```yaml
- type: journald_input
```

Output entry sample:
```json
"entry": {
  "timestamp": "2020-04-16T11:05:49.516168-04:00",
  "body": {
    "CODE_FILE": "../src/core/unit.c",
    "CODE_FUNC": "unit_log_success",
    "CODE_LINE": "5487",
    "MESSAGE": "var-lib-docker-overlay2-bff8130ef3f66eeb81ce2102f1ac34cfa7a10fcbd1b8ae27c6c5a1543f64ddb7-merged.mount: Succeeded.",
    "MESSAGE_ID": "7ad2d189f7e94e70a38c781354912448",
    "PRIORITY": "6",
    "SYSLOG_FACILITY": "3",
    "SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER": "systemd",
    "USER_INVOCATION_ID": "de9283b4fd634213a50f5abe71b4d951",
    "USER_UNIT": "var-lib-docker-overlay2-bff8130ef3f66eeb81ce2102f1ac34cfa7a10fcbd1b8ae27c6c5a1543f64ddb7-merged.mount",
    "_AUDIT_LOGINUID": "1000",
    "_AUDIT_SESSION": "299",
    "_BOOT_ID": "c4fa36de06824d21835c05ff80c54468",
    "_CAP_EFFECTIVE": "0",
    "_CMDLINE": "/lib/systemd/systemd --user",
    "_COMM": "systemd",
    "_EXE": "/usr/lib/systemd/systemd",
    "_GID": "1000",
    "_HOSTNAME": "testhost",
    "_MACHINE_ID": "d777d00e7caf45fbadedceba3975520d",
    "_PID": "18667",
    "_SELINUX_CONTEXT": "unconfined\n",
    "_SOURCE_REALTIME_TIMESTAMP": "1587049549515868",
    "_SYSTEMD_CGROUP": "/user.slice/user-1000.slice/user@1000.service/init.scope",
    "_SYSTEMD_INVOCATION_ID": "da8b20bdc65e4f6f9ca35d6352199b56",
    "_SYSTEMD_OWNER_UID": "1000",
    "_SYSTEMD_SLICE": "user-1000.slice",
    "_SYSTEMD_UNIT": "user@1000.service",
    "_SYSTEMD_USER_SLICE": "-.slice",
    "_SYSTEMD_USER_UNIT": "init.scope",
    "_TRANSPORT": "journal",
    "_UID": "1000",
    "__CURSOR": "s=b1e713b587ae4001a9ca482c4b12c005;i=1efec9;b=c4fa36de06824d21835c05ff80c54468;m=a001b7ec5a;t=5a369c4a3cd88;x=f9717e0b5608807b",
    "__MONOTONIC_TIMESTAMP": "687223598170"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

[receiver/journald]: add support for grep
Signed-off-by: Dominik Rosiek <drosiek@sumologic.com>

pkg/stanza/docs/operators/journald_input.md, after:

## `journald_input` operator

The `journald_input` operator reads logs from the systemd journal using the `journalctl` binary, which must be in the `$PATH` of the agentt.

By default, `journalctl` will read from `/run/journal` or `/var/log/journal`. If either `directory` or `files` are set, `journalctl` will instead read from those.

The `journald_input` operator will use the `__REALTIME_TIMESTAMP` field of the journald entry as the parsed entry's timestamp. All other fields are added to the entry's body as returned by `journalctl`.

### Configuration Fields

| Field             | Default          | Description |
| ---               | ---              | ---         |
| `id`              | `journald_input` | A unique identifier for the operator. |
| `output`          | Next in pipeline | The connected operator(s) that will receive all outbound entries. |
| `directory`       |                  | A directory containing journal files to read entries from. |
| `files`           |                  | A list of journal files to read entries from. |
| `units`           |                  | A list of units to read entries from. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples. |
| `matches`         |                  | A list of matches to read entries from. See [Matches](#matches) and [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples. |
| `priority`        | `info`           | Filter output by message priorities or priority ranges. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples. |
| `grep`            |                  | Filter output to entries where the MESSAGE= field matches the specified regular expression. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples. |
| `start_at`        | `end`            | At startup, where to start reading logs from the file. Options are `beginning` or `end`. |
| `attributes`      | {}               | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's attributes. |
| `resource`        | {}               | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's resource. |

### Example Configurations

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  units:
    - ssh
    - kubelet
  priority: info
```

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  priority: emerg..err
```

#### Matches

The following configuration:

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  matches:
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: ssh
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: kubelet
      _UID: "1000"
```

will be passed to `journalctl` as the following arguments: `journalctl ... _SYSTEMD_UNIT=ssh + _SYSTEMD_UNIT=kubelet _UID=1000`,
which is going to retrieve all entries which match at least one of the following rules:

- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `ssh`
- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` and `_UID` is `1000`

#### Multiple filtering options

In case of using multiple following options, conditions between them are logically `AND`ed and within them are logically `OR`ed:

```text
( priority )
AND
( units[0] OR units[1] OR units[2] OR ... units[U] )
AND
( matches[0] OR matches[1] OR matches[2] OR ... matches[M] )
AND
( grep )
```

Consider the following example:

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  matches:
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: ssh
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: kubelet
      _UID: "1000"
  units:
    - kubelet
    - systemd
  priority: info
```

The above configuration will be passed to `journalctl` as the following arguments
`journalctl ... --priority=info --unit=kubelet --unit=systemd _SYSTEMD_UNIT=ssh + _SYSTEMD_UNIT=kubelet _UID=1000`,
which is going to effectively retrieve all entries which matches the following set of rules:

- `_PRIORITY` is `6`, and
- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` or `systemd`, and
- entry matches at least one of the following rules:

  - `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `ssh`
  - `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` and `_UID` is `1000`

Note, that if you use some fields which aren't associated with an entry, the entry will always be filtered out.
Also be careful about using unit name in `matches` configuration, as for the above example, none of the entry for `ssh` and `systemd` is going to be retrieved.

### Simple journald input

Configuration:
```yaml
- type: journald_input
```

Output entry sample:
```json
"entry": {
  "timestamp": "2020-04-16T11:05:49.516168-04:00",
  "body": {
    "CODE_FILE": "../src/core/unit.c",
    "CODE_FUNC": "unit_log_success",
    "CODE_LINE": "5487",
    "MESSAGE": "var-lib-docker-overlay2-bff8130ef3f66eeb81ce2102f1ac34cfa7a10fcbd1b8ae27c6c5a1543f64ddb7-merged.mount: Succeeded.",
    "MESSAGE_ID": "7ad2d189f7e94e70a38c781354912448",
    "PRIORITY": "6",
    "SYSLOG_FACILITY": "3",
    "SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER": "systemd",
    "USER_INVOCATION_ID": "de9283b4fd634213a50f5abe71b4d951",
    "USER_UNIT": "var-lib-docker-overlay2-bff8130ef3f66eeb81ce2102f1ac34cfa7a10fcbd1b8ae27c6c5a1543f64ddb7-merged.mount",
    "_AUDIT_LOGINUID": "1000",
    "_AUDIT_SESSION": "299",
    "_BOOT_ID": "c4fa36de06824d21835c05ff80c54468",
    "_CAP_EFFECTIVE": "0",
    "_CMDLINE": "/lib/systemd/systemd --user",
    "_COMM": "systemd",
    "_EXE": "/usr/lib/systemd/systemd",
    "_GID": "1000",
    "_HOSTNAME": "testhost",
    "_MACHINE_ID": "d777d00e7caf45fbadedceba3975520d",
    "_PID": "18667",
    "_SELINUX_CONTEXT": "unconfined\n",
    "_SOURCE_REALTIME_TIMESTAMP": "1587049549515868",
    "_SYSTEMD_CGROUP": "/user.slice/user-1000.slice/user@1000.service/init.scope",
    "_SYSTEMD_INVOCATION_ID": "da8b20bdc65e4f6f9ca35d6352199b56",
    "_SYSTEMD_OWNER_UID": "1000",
    "_SYSTEMD_SLICE": "user-1000.slice",
    "_SYSTEMD_UNIT": "user@1000.service",
    "_SYSTEMD_USER_SLICE": "-.slice",
    "_SYSTEMD_USER_UNIT": "init.scope",
    "_TRANSPORT": "journal",
    "_UID": "1000",
    "__CURSOR": "s=b1e713b587ae4001a9ca482c4b12c005;i=1efec9;b=c4fa36de06824d21835c05ff80c54468;m=a001b7ec5a;t=5a369c4a3cd88;x=f9717e0b5608807b",
    "__MONOTONIC_TIMESTAMP": "687223598170"
  }
}
```
