pkg/stanza/docs/operators/tcp_input.md, before:

## `tcp_input` operator

The `tcp_input` operator listens for logs on one or more TCP connections. The operator assumes that logs are newline separated.

### Configuration Fields

| Field                           | Default          | Description |
| ---                             | ---              | ---         |
| `id`                            | `tcp_input`      | A unique identifier for the operator. |
| `output`                        | Next in pipeline | The connected operator(s) that will receive all outbound entries. |
| `max_log_size`                  | `1MiB`           | The maximum size of a log entry to read before failing. Protects against reading large amounts of data into memory. |
| `listen_address`                | required         | A listen address of the form `<ip>:<port>`. |
| `tls`                           | nil              | An optional `TLS` configuration (see the TLS configuration section). |
| `attributes`                    | {}               | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's attributes. |
| `resource`                      | {}               | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's resource. |
| `add_attributes`                | false            | Adds `net.*` attributes according to [semantic convention][https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/span-general.md#general-network-connection-attributes]. |
| `multiline`                     |                  | A `multiline` configuration block. See below for details. |
| `preserve_leading_whitespaces`  | false            | Whether to preserve leading whitespaces.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `preserve_trailing_whitespaces` | false            | Whether to preserve trailing whitespaces.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `encoding`                      | `utf-8`          | The encoding of the file being read. See the list of supported encodings below for available options. |

#### TLS Configuration

The `tcp_input` operator supports TLS, disabled by default.
config more detail [opentelemetry-collector#configtls](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/configtls#tls-configuration-settings).

| Field             | Default          | Description                                                                                                                                           |
| ---               | ---              | ---                                                                                                                                                   |
| `cert_file`       |                  | Path to the TLS cert to use for TLS required connections.                                                                                             |
| `key_file`        |                  | Path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections.                                                                                              |
| `ca_file`         |                  | Path to the CA cert. For a client this verifies the server certificate. For a server this verifies client certificates. If empty uses system root CA. |
| `client_ca_file`  |                  | Path to the TLS cert to use by the server to verify a client certificate. (optional)                                                                  |

#### `multiline` configuration

If set, the `multiline` configuration block instructs the `tcp_input` operator to split log entries on a pattern other than newlines.

The `multiline` configuration block must contain exactly one of `line_start_pattern` or `line_end_pattern`. These are regex patterns that
match either the beginning of a new log entry, or the end of a log entry.

#### Supported encodings

| Key        | Description
| ---        | ---                                                              |
| `nop`      | No encoding validation. Treats the file as a stream of raw bytes |
| `utf-8`    | UTF-8 encoding                                                   |
| `utf-16le` | UTF-16 encoding with little-endian byte order                    |
| `utf-16be` | UTF-16 encoding with little-endian byte order                    |
| `ascii`    | ASCII encoding                                                   |
| `big5`     | The Big5 Chinese character encoding                              |

Other less common encodings are supported on a best-effort basis.
See [https://www.iana.org/assignments/character-sets/character-sets.xhtml](https://www.iana.org/assignments/character-sets/character-sets.xhtml)
for other encodings available.

### Example Configurations

#### Simple

Configuration:

```yaml
- type: tcp_input
  listen_address: "0.0.0.0:54525"
```

Send a log:

```bash
$ nc localhost 54525 <<EOF
heredoc> message1
heredoc> message2
heredoc> EOF
```

Generated entries:

```json
{
  "timestamp": "2020-04-30T12:10:17.656726-04:00",
  "body": "message1"
},
{
  "timestamp": "2020-04-30T12:10:17.657143-04:00",
  "body": "message2"
}
```

Commit message:

add option to skip log tokenization (#23440)
Description: Performance improvement for UDP receiver.
Currently, UDP created on each log line a scanner object with split
functions, even if there was no need for log tokenizing.
this PR adds a new config option 'tokenize_log' (default value set to
true) which lets you decide if this is the behavior you want.
if set as false the scanner object is not created and the performance is
increased significantly (up to 3X)

Link to tracking Issue:
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/discussions/23237

Testing:
Created a local build of the UDP receiver and tested that the logs
arrive and exported as expected.

---------

Co-authored-by: Daniel Jaglowski <jaglows3@gmail.com>

pkg/stanza/docs/operators/tcp_input.md, after:

## `tcp_input` operator

The `tcp_input` operator listens for logs on one or more TCP connections. The operator assumes that logs are newline separated.

### Configuration Fields

| Field                                   | Default              | Description |
| ---                                     | ---                  | ---         |
| `id`                                    | `tcp_input`          | A unique identifier for the operator. |
| `output`                                | Next in pipeline     | The connected operator(s) that will receive all outbound entries. |
| `max_log_size`                          | `1MiB`               | The maximum size of a log entry to read before failing. Protects against reading large amounts of data into memory. |
| `listen_address`                        | required             | A listen address of the form `<ip>:<port>`. |
| `tls`                                   | nil                  | An optional `TLS` configuration (see the TLS configuration section). |
| `attributes`                            | {}                   | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's attributes. |
| `one_log_per_packet`                    | false               | Skip log tokenization, set to true if logs contains one log per record and multiline is not used.  This will improve performance. |
| `resource`                              | {}                   | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's resource. |
| `add_attributes`                        | false                | Adds `net.*` attributes according to [semantic convention][https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/span-general.md#general-network-connection-attributes]. |
| `multiline`                     |                  | A `multiline` configuration block. See below for details. |
| `preserve_leading_whitespaces`          | false                | Whether to preserve leading whitespaces.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `preserve_trailing_whitespaces`         | false                | Whether to preserve trailing whitespaces.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `encoding`                              | `utf-8`              | The encoding of the file being read. See the list of supported encodings below for available options. |

#### TLS Configuration

The `tcp_input` operator supports TLS, disabled by default.
config more detail [opentelemetry-collector#configtls](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/configtls#tls-configuration-settings).

| Field             | Default          | Description                                                                                                                                           |
| ---               | ---              | ---                                                                                                                                                   |
| `cert_file`       |                  | Path to the TLS cert to use for TLS required connections.                                                                                             |
| `key_file`        |                  | Path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections.                                                                                              |
| `ca_file`         |                  | Path to the CA cert. For a client this verifies the server certificate. For a server this verifies client certificates. If empty uses system root CA. |
| `client_ca_file`  |                  | Path to the TLS cert to use by the server to verify a client certificate. (optional)                                                                  |

#### `multiline` configuration

If set, the `multiline` configuration block instructs the `tcp_input` operator to split log entries on a pattern other than newlines.

The `multiline` configuration block must contain exactly one of `line_start_pattern` or `line_end_pattern`. These are regex patterns that
match either the beginning of a new log entry, or the end of a log entry.

#### Supported encodings

| Key        | Description
| ---        | ---                                                              |
| `nop`      | No encoding validation. Treats the file as a stream of raw bytes |
| `utf-8`    | UTF-8 encoding                                                   |
| `utf-16le` | UTF-16 encoding with little-endian byte order                    |
| `utf-16be` | UTF-16 encoding with little-endian byte order                    |
| `ascii`    | ASCII encoding                                                   |
| `big5`     | The Big5 Chinese character encoding                              |

Other less common encodings are supported on a best-effort basis.
See [https://www.iana.org/assignments/character-sets/character-sets.xhtml](https://www.iana.org/assignments/character-sets/character-sets.xhtml)
for other encodings available.

### Example Configurations

#### Simple

Configuration:

```yaml
- type: tcp_input
  listen_address: "0.0.0.0:54525"
```

Send a log:

```bash
$ nc localhost 54525 <<EOF
heredoc> message1
heredoc> message2
heredoc> EOF
```

Generated entries:

```json
{
  "timestamp": "2020-04-30T12:10:17.656726-04:00",
  "body": "message1"
},
{
  "timestamp": "2020-04-30T12:10:17.657143-04:00",
  "body": "message2"
}
```
