receiver/vcenterreceiver/documentation.md, before:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# vcenter

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### vcenter.cluster.cpu.effective

The effective CPU available to the cluster. This value excludes CPU from hosts in maintenance mode or are unresponsive.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {MHz} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.cpu.limit

The amount of CPU available to the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {MHz} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.host.count

The number of hosts in the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {hosts} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| effective | Whether the host is effective in the vCenter cluster. | Any Bool |

### vcenter.cluster.memory.effective

The effective memory of the cluster. This value excludes memory from hosts in maintenance mode or are unresponsive.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.memory.limit

The available memory of the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.memory.used

The memory that is currently used by the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.vm.count

the number of virtual machines in the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {virtual_machines} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| power_state | Whether the virtual machines are powered on or off. | Str: ``on``, ``off`` |

### vcenter.datastore.disk.usage

The amount of space in the datastore.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| disk_state | The state of storage and whether it is already allocated or free. | Str: ``available``, ``used`` |

### vcenter.datastore.disk.utilization

The utilization of the datastore.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.host.cpu.usage

The amount of CPU used by the host.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MHz | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.host.cpu.utilization

The CPU utilization of the host system.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.host.disk.latency.avg

The latency of operations to the host system's disk.

This latency is the sum of the device and kernel read and write latencies. Requires Performance Counter level 2 for metric to populate.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of disk latency. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.disk.latency.max

Highest latency value across all disks used by the host.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval. Requires Performance Level 3.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.disk.throughput

Average number of kilobytes read from or written to the disk each second.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval. Aggregated disk I/O rate. Requires Performance Level 4.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {KiBy/s} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of disk latency. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.memory.usage

The amount of memory the host system is using.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.host.memory.utilization

The percentage of the host system's memory capacity that is being utilized.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.host.network.packet.count

The number of packets transmitted and received, as measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {packets/sec} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.network.packet.errors

The summation of packet errors on the host network.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {errors} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.network.throughput

The amount of data that was transmitted or received over the network by the host.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {KiBy/s} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.network.usage

The sum of the data transmitted and received for all the NIC instances of the host.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {KiBy/s} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.resource_pool.cpu.shares

The amount of shares of CPU in the resource pool.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {shares} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.resource_pool.cpu.usage

The usage of the CPU used by the resource pool.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {MHz} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.resource_pool.memory.shares

The amount of shares of memory in the resource pool.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {shares} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.resource_pool.memory.usage

The usage of the memory by the resource pool.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.cpu.usage

The amount of CPU used by the VM.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MHz | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.cpu.utilization

The CPU utilization of the VM.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.vm.disk.latency.avg

The latency of operations to the virtual machine's disk.

Requires Performance Counter level 2 for metric to populate. As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of disk latency. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |
| disk_type | The type of storage device that is being recorded. | Str: ``virtual``, ``physical`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.disk.latency.max

The highest reported total latency (device and kernel times) over an interval of 20 seconds.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.disk.throughput

The throughput of the virtual machine's disk.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By/sec | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.disk.usage

The amount of storage space used by the virtual machine.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| disk_state | The state of storage and whether it is already allocated or free. | Str: ``available``, ``used`` |

### vcenter.vm.disk.utilization

The utilization of storage on the virtual machine.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.vm.memory.ballooned

The amount of memory that is ballooned due to virtualization.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.memory.swapped

The portion of memory that is granted to this VM from the host's swap space.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.memory.swapped_ssd

The amount of memory swapped to fast disk device such as SSD.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| KiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.memory.usage

The amount of memory that is used by the virtual machine.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.network.packet.count

The amount of packets that was received or transmitted over the instance's network.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {packets/sec} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.network.throughput

The amount of data that was transmitted or received over the network of the virtual machine.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By/sec | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.network.usage

The network utilization combined transmit and receive rates during an interval.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {KiBy/s} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### vcenter.vm.memory.utilization

The memory utilization of the VM.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| vcenter.cluster.name | The name of the vCenter Cluster. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.datastore.name | The name of the vCenter datastore. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.host.name | The hostname of the vCenter ESXi host. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.resource_pool.name | The name of the resource pool. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.vm.id | The instance UUID of the virtual machine. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.vm.name | The name of the virtual machine. | Any Str | true |

Commit message:

add resource attribute for resource pool inventory paths

receiver/vcenterreceiver/documentation.md, after:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# vcenter

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### vcenter.cluster.cpu.effective

The effective CPU available to the cluster. This value excludes CPU from hosts in maintenance mode or are unresponsive.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {MHz} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.cpu.limit

The amount of CPU available to the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {MHz} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.host.count

The number of hosts in the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {hosts} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| effective | Whether the host is effective in the vCenter cluster. | Any Bool |

### vcenter.cluster.memory.effective

The effective memory of the cluster. This value excludes memory from hosts in maintenance mode or are unresponsive.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.memory.limit

The available memory of the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.memory.used

The memory that is currently used by the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.cluster.vm.count

the number of virtual machines in the cluster.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {virtual_machines} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| power_state | Whether the virtual machines are powered on or off. | Str: ``on``, ``off`` |

### vcenter.datastore.disk.usage

The amount of space in the datastore.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| disk_state | The state of storage and whether it is already allocated or free. | Str: ``available``, ``used`` |

### vcenter.datastore.disk.utilization

The utilization of the datastore.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.host.cpu.usage

The amount of CPU used by the host.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MHz | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.host.cpu.utilization

The CPU utilization of the host system.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.host.disk.latency.avg

The latency of operations to the host system's disk.

This latency is the sum of the device and kernel read and write latencies. Requires Performance Counter level 2 for metric to populate.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of disk latency. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.disk.latency.max

Highest latency value across all disks used by the host.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval. Requires Performance Level 3.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.disk.throughput

Average number of kilobytes read from or written to the disk each second.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval. Aggregated disk I/O rate. Requires Performance Level 4.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {KiBy/s} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of disk latency. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.memory.usage

The amount of memory the host system is using.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.host.memory.utilization

The percentage of the host system's memory capacity that is being utilized.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.host.network.packet.count

The number of packets transmitted and received, as measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {packets/sec} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.network.packet.errors

The summation of packet errors on the host network.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {errors} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.network.throughput

The amount of data that was transmitted or received over the network by the host.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {KiBy/s} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.host.network.usage

The sum of the data transmitted and received for all the NIC instances of the host.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {KiBy/s} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.resource_pool.cpu.shares

The amount of shares of CPU in the resource pool.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {shares} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.resource_pool.cpu.usage

The usage of the CPU used by the resource pool.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {MHz} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.resource_pool.memory.shares

The amount of shares of memory in the resource pool.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {shares} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.resource_pool.memory.usage

The usage of the memory by the resource pool.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.cpu.usage

The amount of CPU used by the VM.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MHz | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.cpu.utilization

The CPU utilization of the VM.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.vm.disk.latency.avg

The latency of operations to the virtual machine's disk.

Requires Performance Counter level 2 for metric to populate. As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of disk latency. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |
| disk_type | The type of storage device that is being recorded. | Str: ``virtual``, ``physical`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.disk.latency.max

The highest reported total latency (device and kernel times) over an interval of 20 seconds.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.disk.throughput

The throughput of the virtual machine's disk.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By/sec | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.disk.usage

The amount of storage space used by the virtual machine.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| disk_state | The state of storage and whether it is already allocated or free. | Str: ``available``, ``used`` |

### vcenter.vm.disk.utilization

The utilization of storage on the virtual machine.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### vcenter.vm.memory.ballooned

The amount of memory that is ballooned due to virtualization.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.memory.swapped

The portion of memory that is granted to this VM from the host's swap space.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.memory.swapped_ssd

The amount of memory swapped to fast disk device such as SSD.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| KiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.memory.usage

The amount of memory that is used by the virtual machine.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| MiBy | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### vcenter.vm.network.packet.count

The amount of packets that was received or transmitted over the instance's network.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {packets/sec} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.network.throughput

The amount of data that was transmitted or received over the network of the virtual machine.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By/sec | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | The direction of network throughput. | Str: ``transmitted``, ``received`` |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

### vcenter.vm.network.usage

The network utilization combined transmit and receive rates during an interval.

As measured over the most recent 20s interval.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {KiBy/s} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| object | The object on the virtual machine or host that is being reported on. | Any Str |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### vcenter.vm.memory.utilization

The memory utilization of the VM.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| vcenter.cluster.name | The name of the vCenter Cluster. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.datastore.name | The name of the vCenter datastore. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.host.name | The hostname of the vCenter ESXi host. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.resource_pool.inventory_path | The inventory path of the resource pool. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.resource_pool.name | The name of the resource pool. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.vm.id | The instance UUID of the virtual machine. | Any Str | true |
| vcenter.vm.name | The name of the virtual machine. | Any Str | true |
