exporter/prometheusexporter/README.md, before:

# Prometheus Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib], [aws], [observiq], [redhat], [sumo] |
| Issues        | ![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheus%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry) ![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheus%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[aws]: https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-otel-collector
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[redhat]: https://github.com/os-observability/redhat-opentelemetry-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Exports data in the [Prometheus format](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/), which allows it to be scraped by a [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) server.

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (no default): the address on which metrics will be exposed, using path `/metrics`. For full list of `HTTPServerSettings` refer [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/confighttp).

The following settings can be optionally configured:

- `const_labels` (no default): key/values that are applied for every exported metric.
- `namespace` (no default): if set, exports metrics under the provided value.
- `send_timestamps` (default = `false`): if true, sends the timestamp of the underlying metric sample in the response.
- `metric_expiration` (default = `5m`): defines how long metrics are exposed without updates
- `resource_to_telemetry_conversion`
  - `enabled` (default = false): If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes will be converted to metric labels by default.
- `enable_open_metrics`: (default = `false`): If true, metrics will be exported using the OpenMetrics format. Exemplars are only exported in the OpenMetrics format, and only for histogram and monotonic sum (i.e. counter) metrics.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  prometheus:
    endpoint: "1.2.3.4:1234"
    tls:
      ca_file: "/path/to/ca.pem"
      cert_file: "/path/to/cert.pem"
      key_file: "/path/to/key.pem"
    namespace: test-space
    const_labels:
      label1: value1
      "another label": spaced value
    send_timestamps: true
    metric_expiration: 180m
    enable_open_metrics: true
    resource_to_telemetry_conversion:
      enabled: true
```

Given the example, metrics will be available at `https://1.2.3.4:1234/metrics`.

## Metric names and labels normalization

OpenTelemetry metric names and attributes are normalized to be compliant with Prometheus naming rules. [Details on this normalization process are described in the Prometheus translator module](../../pkg/translator/prometheus/).

Commit message:

prometheus exporters: Add add_metric_suffixes configuration option, which can disable the addition of type and unit suffixes.

exporter/prometheusexporter/README.md, after:

# Prometheus Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib], [aws], [observiq], [redhat], [sumo] |
| Issues        | ![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheus%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry) ![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheus%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[aws]: https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-otel-collector
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[redhat]: https://github.com/os-observability/redhat-opentelemetry-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Exports data in the [Prometheus format](https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/), which allows it to be scraped by a [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) server.

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (no default): the address on which metrics will be exposed, using path `/metrics`. For full list of `HTTPServerSettings` refer [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/confighttp).

The following settings can be optionally configured:

- `const_labels` (no default): key/values that are applied for every exported metric.
- `namespace` (no default): if set, exports metrics under the provided value.
- `send_timestamps` (default = `false`): if true, sends the timestamp of the underlying metric sample in the response.
- `metric_expiration` (default = `5m`): defines how long metrics are exposed without updates
- `resource_to_telemetry_conversion`
  - `enabled` (default = false): If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes will be converted to metric labels by default.
- `enable_open_metrics`: (default = `false`): If true, metrics will be exported using the OpenMetrics format. Exemplars are only exported in the OpenMetrics format, and only for histogram and monotonic sum (i.e. counter) metrics.
- `add_metric_suffixes`: (default = `true`): If false, addition of type and unit suffixes is disabled.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  prometheus:
    endpoint: "1.2.3.4:1234"
    tls:
      ca_file: "/path/to/ca.pem"
      cert_file: "/path/to/cert.pem"
      key_file: "/path/to/key.pem"
    namespace: test-space
    const_labels:
      label1: value1
      "another label": spaced value
    send_timestamps: true
    metric_expiration: 180m
    enable_open_metrics: true
    add_metric_suffixes: false
    resource_to_telemetry_conversion:
      enabled: true
```

Given the example, metrics will be available at `https://1.2.3.4:1234/metrics`.

## Metric names and labels normalization

OpenTelemetry metric names and attributes are normalized to be compliant with Prometheus naming rules. [Details on this normalization process are described in the Prometheus translator module](../../pkg/translator/prometheus/).
