cmd/githubgen/README.md, before:

# githubgen

This executable is used to generate the `.github/CODEOWNERS` and `.github/ALLOWLIST` files.

It reads status metadata from `metadata.yaml` files located throughout the repository.

It checks that codeowners are known members of the OpenTelemetry organization.

## Usage

```
$> make gengithub
```
The equivalent of:
```
$> cd cmd/githubgen && $(GOCMD) install .
$> GITHUB_TOKEN=<mypattoken> githubgen --folder . [--allowlist cmd/githubgen/allowlist.txt] 
```

## Checking codeowners against OpenTelemetry membership via Github API

To authenticate, set the environment variable `GITHUB_TOKEN` to a PAT token.  If a PAT is not available you can use the `--skipgithub` flag to avoid checking for membership in the GitHub organization.

For each codeowner, the script will check if the user is registered as a member of the OpenTelemetry organization.

If any codeowner is missing, it will stop and print names of missing codeowners.

These can be added to allowlist.txt as a workaround.

If a codeowner is present in allowlist.txt and also a member of the OpenTelemetry organization, the script will error out.

Commit message:

[githubgen] Deprecate githubgen in favor of opentelemetry-go-build-tools

cmd/githubgen/README.md, after:

:warn: This executable has moved to [opentelemetry-go-build-tools](Deprecated: use https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-build-tools/tree/main/githubgen).

This code is deprecated and will be removed soon. See https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/37294.

# githubgen

This executable is used to generate the `.github/CODEOWNERS` and `.github/ALLOWLIST` files.

It reads status metadata from `metadata.yaml` files located throughout the repository.

It checks that codeowners are known members of the OpenTelemetry organization.

## Usage

```
$> make gengithub
```
The equivalent of:
```
$> cd cmd/githubgen && $(GOCMD) install .
$> GITHUB_TOKEN=<mypattoken> githubgen --folder . [--allowlist cmd/githubgen/allowlist.txt] 
```

## Checking codeowners against OpenTelemetry membership via Github API

To authenticate, set the environment variable `GITHUB_TOKEN` to a PAT token.  If a PAT is not available you can use the `--skipgithub` flag to avoid checking for membership in the GitHub organization.

For each codeowner, the script will check if the user is registered as a member of the OpenTelemetry organization.

If any codeowner is missing, it will stop and print names of missing codeowners.

These can be added to allowlist.txt as a workaround.

If a codeowner is present in allowlist.txt and also a member of the OpenTelemetry organization, the script will error out.
