receiver/sqlserverreceiver/documentation.md, before:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# sqlserver

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### sqlserver.batch.request.rate

Number of batch requests received by SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {requests}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.batch.sql_compilation.rate

Number of SQL compilations needed.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {compilations}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.batch.sql_recompilation.rate

Number of SQL recompilations needed.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {compilations}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.lock.wait.rate

Number of lock requests resulting in a wait.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {requests}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.lock.wait_time.avg

Average wait time for all lock requests that had to wait.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.page.buffer_cache.hit_ratio

Pages found in the buffer pool without having to read from disk.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.page.checkpoint.flush.rate

Number of pages flushed by operations requiring dirty pages to be flushed.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {pages}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.page.lazy_write.rate

Number of lazy writes moving dirty pages to disk.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {writes}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.page.life_expectancy

Time a page will stay in the buffer pool.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| s | Gauge | Int |

### sqlserver.page.operation.rate

Number of physical database page operations issued.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {operations}/s | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| type | The page operation types. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### sqlserver.page.split.rate

Number of pages split as a result of overflowing index pages.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {pages}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction.rate

Number of transactions started for the database (not including XTP-only transactions).

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {transactions}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction.write.rate

Number of transactions that wrote to the database and committed.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {transactions}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.flush.data.rate

Total number of log bytes flushed.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.flush.rate

Number of log flushes.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {flushes}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.flush.wait.rate

Number of commits waiting for a transaction log flush.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {commits}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.growth.count

Total number of transaction log expansions for a database.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {growths} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.shrink.count

Total number of transaction log shrinks for a database.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {shrinks} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.usage

Percent of transaction log space used.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Int |

### sqlserver.user.connection.count

Number of users connected to the SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {connections} | Gauge | Int |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### sqlserver.database.count

The number of databases

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {databases} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| database.status | The current status of a database | Str: ``online``, ``restoring``, ``recovering``, ``pending_recovery``, ``suspect``, ``offline`` |

### sqlserver.database.io

The number of bytes of I/O on this file.

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| physical_filename | The physical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| logical_filename | The logical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| file_type | The type of file being monitored. | Any Str |
| direction | The direction of flow of bytes or operations. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### sqlserver.database.latency

Total time that the users waited for I/O issued on this file.

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| s | Sum | Double | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| physical_filename | The physical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| logical_filename | The logical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| file_type | The type of file being monitored. | Any Str |
| direction | The direction of flow of bytes or operations. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### sqlserver.database.operations

The number of operations issued on the file.

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {operations} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| physical_filename | The physical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| logical_filename | The logical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| file_type | The type of file being monitored. | Any Str |
| direction | The direction of flow of bytes or operations. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### sqlserver.processes.blocked

The number of processes that are currently blocked

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {processes} | Gauge | Int |

### sqlserver.resource_pool.disk.throttled.read.rate

The number of read operations that were throttled in the last second

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {reads}/s | Gauge | Int |

### sqlserver.resource_pool.disk.throttled.write.rate

The number of write operations that were throttled in the last second

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {writes}/s | Gauge | Double |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| sqlserver.computer.name | The name of the SQL Server instance being monitored. | Any Str | false |
| sqlserver.database.name | The name of the SQL Server database. | Any Str | true |
| sqlserver.instance.name | The name of the SQL Server instance being monitored. | Any Str | false |

Commit message:

Add SQL server host resource attributes

receiver/sqlserverreceiver/documentation.md, after:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# sqlserver

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### sqlserver.batch.request.rate

Number of batch requests received by SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {requests}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.batch.sql_compilation.rate

Number of SQL compilations needed.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {compilations}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.batch.sql_recompilation.rate

Number of SQL recompilations needed.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {compilations}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.lock.wait.rate

Number of lock requests resulting in a wait.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {requests}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.lock.wait_time.avg

Average wait time for all lock requests that had to wait.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| ms | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.page.buffer_cache.hit_ratio

Pages found in the buffer pool without having to read from disk.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.page.checkpoint.flush.rate

Number of pages flushed by operations requiring dirty pages to be flushed.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {pages}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.page.lazy_write.rate

Number of lazy writes moving dirty pages to disk.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {writes}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.page.life_expectancy

Time a page will stay in the buffer pool.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| s | Gauge | Int |

### sqlserver.page.operation.rate

Number of physical database page operations issued.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {operations}/s | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| type | The page operation types. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### sqlserver.page.split.rate

Number of pages split as a result of overflowing index pages.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {pages}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction.rate

Number of transactions started for the database (not including XTP-only transactions).

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {transactions}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction.write.rate

Number of transactions that wrote to the database and committed.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {transactions}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.flush.data.rate

Total number of log bytes flushed.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.flush.rate

Number of log flushes.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {flushes}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.flush.wait.rate

Number of commits waiting for a transaction log flush.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {commits}/s | Gauge | Double |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.growth.count

Total number of transaction log expansions for a database.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {growths} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.shrink.count

Total number of transaction log shrinks for a database.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {shrinks} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

### sqlserver.transaction_log.usage

Percent of transaction log space used.

This metric is only available when running on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| % | Gauge | Int |

### sqlserver.user.connection.count

Number of users connected to the SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {connections} | Gauge | Int |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### sqlserver.database.count

The number of databases

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {databases} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| database.status | The current status of a database | Str: ``online``, ``restoring``, ``recovering``, ``pending_recovery``, ``suspect``, ``offline`` |

### sqlserver.database.io

The number of bytes of I/O on this file.

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| physical_filename | The physical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| logical_filename | The logical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| file_type | The type of file being monitored. | Any Str |
| direction | The direction of flow of bytes or operations. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### sqlserver.database.latency

Total time that the users waited for I/O issued on this file.

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| s | Sum | Double | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| physical_filename | The physical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| logical_filename | The logical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| file_type | The type of file being monitored. | Any Str |
| direction | The direction of flow of bytes or operations. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### sqlserver.database.operations

The number of operations issued on the file.

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {operations} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| physical_filename | The physical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| logical_filename | The logical filename of the file being monitored. | Any Str |
| file_type | The type of file being monitored. | Any Str |
| direction | The direction of flow of bytes or operations. | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### sqlserver.processes.blocked

The number of processes that are currently blocked

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {processes} | Gauge | Int |

### sqlserver.resource_pool.disk.throttled.read.rate

The number of read operations that were throttled in the last second

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {reads}/s | Gauge | Int |

### sqlserver.resource_pool.disk.throttled.write.rate

The number of write operations that were throttled in the last second

This metric is only available when the receiver is configured to directly connect to SQL Server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {writes}/s | Gauge | Double |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| server.address | The address of the SQL server host. | Any Str | true |
| server.port | The port of the SQL server host. | Any Int | false |
| sqlserver.computer.name | The name of the SQL Server instance being monitored. | Any Str | false |
| sqlserver.database.name | The name of the SQL Server database. | Any Str | true |
| sqlserver.instance.name | The name of the SQL Server instance being monitored. | Any Str | false |
