receiver/oracledbreceiver/README.md, before:

# Oracle DB receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [splunk] |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver collects metrics from an Oracle Database.

The receiver connects to a database host and performs periodically queries.

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `datasource`: Oracle database connection string. Refer to Oracle Go Driver go_ora documentation for full connection string options.

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  oracledb:
    datasource: "oracle://otel:password@localhost:51521/XE"
```

## Permissions

Depending on which metrics you collect, you will need to assign those permissions to the database user:
```
GRANT SELECT ON V_$SESSION TO <username>;
GRANT SELECT ON V_$SYSSTAT TO <username>;
GRANT SELECT ON V_$RESOURCE_LIMIT TO <username>;
GRANT SELECT ON DBA_TABLESPACES TO <username>;
GRANT SELECT ON DBA_DATA_FILES TO <username>;
```

## Enabling metrics.

See [documentation.md].

You can enable or disable selective metrics.

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  oracledb:
    datasource: "oracle://otel:password@localhost:51521/XE"
    metrics:
      oracledb.query.cpu_time:
        enabled: false
      oracledb.query.physical_read_requests:
        enabled: true
```

Commit message:

[receiver/oracledb] Add a simpler alternative for configuration
Currently the only way to configure the OracleDB receiver is to manually
define a custom datasource string. This string must have a specific format
with specific pieces of information. It's easier for a user to identify
information in smaller sizes, and leave the formatting of the connection
string to the receiver itself. This change allows the user to define
their connection information in whichever format they prefer.

receiver/oracledbreceiver/README.md, after:

# Oracle DB receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [splunk] |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver collects metrics from an Oracle Database.

The receiver connects to a database host and performs periodically queries.

## Getting Started

To use the OracleDB receiver you must define how to connect to your DB. This can be done in two ways,
defined in the [Primary](#primary-configuration-option) and [Secondary](#secondary-configuration-option) configuration
option sections. Defining one of the two configurations is required. If both are defined, the primary
option will be used.

### Primary Configuration Option

Required options:
- `datasource`: Oracle database connection string. Refer to Oracle Go Driver go_ora documentation for full connection string options.

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  oracledb:
    datasource: "oracle://otel:password@localhost:51521/XE"
```

### Secondary Configuration Option

Required options:
- `endpoint`: Endpoint used to connect to the OracleDB server. Must be in the format of `host:port`
- `password`: Password for the OracleDB connection
- `service`: OracleDB Service that the receiver should connect to.
- `username`: Username for the OracleDB connection

Example:
```yaml
receivers:
  oracledb:
    endpoint: localhost:51521
    password: password
    service: XE
    username: otel
```

## Permissions

Depending on which metrics you collect, you will need to assign those permissions to the database user:
```
GRANT SELECT ON V_$SESSION TO <username>;
GRANT SELECT ON V_$SYSSTAT TO <username>;
GRANT SELECT ON V_$RESOURCE_LIMIT TO <username>;
GRANT SELECT ON DBA_TABLESPACES TO <username>;
GRANT SELECT ON DBA_DATA_FILES TO <username>;
```

## Enabling metrics.

See [documentation](./documentation).

You can enable or disable selective metrics.

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  oracledb:
    datasource: "oracle://otel:password@localhost:51521/XE"
    metrics:
      oracledb.query.cpu_time:
        enabled: false
      oracledb.query.physical_read_requests:
        enabled: true
```
