extension/oauth2clientauthextension/README.md, before:

# Authenticator - OAuth2 Client Credentials
<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]  |
| Distributions | [contrib], [grafana], [redhat], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aextension%2Foauth2clientauth%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aextension%2Foauth2clientauth) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aextension%2Foauth2clientauth%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aextension%2Foauth2clientauth) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@pavankrish123](https://www.github.com/pavankrish123), [@jpkrohling](https://www.github.com/jpkrohling) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[grafana]: https://github.com/grafana/agent
[redhat]: https://github.com/os-observability/redhat-opentelemetry-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->


This extension provides OAuth2 Client Credentials flow authenticator for HTTP and gRPC based exporters. The extension
fetches and refreshes the token after expiry automatically. For further details about OAuth2 Client Credentials flow (2-legged workflow)
refer https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-4.4.

The authenticator type has to be set to `oauth2client`.

## Configuration

```yaml
extensions:
  oauth2client:
    client_id: someclientid
    client_secret: someclientsecret
    endpoint_params:
      audience: someaudience
    token_url: https://example.com/oauth2/default/v1/token
    scopes: ["api.metrics"]
    # tls settings for the token client
    tls:
      insecure: true
      ca_file: /var/lib/mycert.pem
      cert_file: certfile
      key_file: keyfile
    # timeout for the token client
    timeout: 2s
    
receivers:
  hostmetrics:
    scrapers:
      memory:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:

exporters:
  otlphttp/withauth:
    endpoint: http://localhost:9000
    auth:
      authenticator: oauth2client
      
  otlp/withauth:
    endpoint: 0.0.0.0:5000
    ca_file: /tmp/certs/ca.pem
    auth:
      authenticator: oauth2client

service:
  extensions: [oauth2client]
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [hostmetrics]
      processors: []
      exporters: [otlphttp/withauth, otlp/withauth]
```

Following are the configuration fields

- [**token_url**](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-3.2) - The resource server's token endpoint URLs.
- [**client_id**](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-2.2) - The client identifier issued to the client.
- [**client_secret**](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-2.3.1) - The secret string associated with above identifier.
- [**endpoint_params**](https://github.com/golang/oauth2/blob/master/clientcredentials/clientcredentials.go#L44) - Additional parameters that are sent to the token endpoint.
- [**scopes**](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-3.3) - **Optional** optional requested permissions associated for the client.
- [**timeout**](https://golang.org/src/net/http/client.go#L90) -  **Optional** specifies the timeout on the underlying client to authorization server for fetching the tokens (initial and while refreshing).
  This is optional and not setting this configuration implies there is no timeout on the client.

For more information on client side TLS settings, see [configtls README](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/configtls).

Commit message:

[extension/oauth2clientauth] Enable dynamically reading ClientID and ClientSecret from files (#26310)
**Description:**
This PR implements the feature described in detail in the issue linked
below.

In a nutshell, it extends the `oauth2clientauth` extension to read
ClientID and/or ClientSecret from files whenever a new token is needed
for the OAuth flow.
As a result, the extension can use updated credentials (when the old
ones expire for example) without the need to restart the OTEL collector,
as long as the file contents are in sync.

**Link to tracking Issue:** #26117 

**Testing:**
Apart from the unit testing you can see in the PR, I've tested this
feature in two real-life environments:

1. As a systemd service exporting `otlphttp` data
2. A Kubernetes microservice (deployed by an OpenTelemetryCollector CR)
exporting `otlphttp` data

In both cases, the collectors export the data to a service which sits
behind an OIDC authentication proxy.
Using the `oauth2clientauth` extension, the `otlphttp` exporter hits the
authentication provider to issue tokens for the OIDC client and
successfully authenticates to the service.

In my cases, the ClientSecret gets rotated quite frequently and there is
a stack making sure the ClientID and ClientSecret in the corresponding
files are up-to-date.

**Documentation:**
I have extended the extension's README file. I'm open to more
suggestions!

cc @jpkrohling @pavankrish123

extension/oauth2clientauthextension/README.md, after:

# Authenticator - OAuth2 Client Credentials
<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]  |
| Distributions | [contrib], [grafana], [redhat], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aextension%2Foauth2clientauth%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aextension%2Foauth2clientauth) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aextension%2Foauth2clientauth%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aextension%2Foauth2clientauth) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@pavankrish123](https://www.github.com/pavankrish123), [@jpkrohling](https://www.github.com/jpkrohling) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[grafana]: https://github.com/grafana/agent
[redhat]: https://github.com/os-observability/redhat-opentelemetry-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->


This extension provides OAuth2 Client Credentials flow authenticator for HTTP and gRPC based exporters. The extension
fetches and refreshes the token after expiry automatically. For further details about OAuth2 Client Credentials flow (2-legged workflow)
refer https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-4.4.

The authenticator type has to be set to `oauth2client`.

## Configuration

```yaml
extensions:
  oauth2client:
    client_id: someclientid
    client_secret: someclientsecret
    endpoint_params:
      audience: someaudience
    token_url: https://example.com/oauth2/default/v1/token
    scopes: ["api.metrics"]
    # tls settings for the token client
    tls:
      insecure: true
      ca_file: /var/lib/mycert.pem
      cert_file: certfile
      key_file: keyfile
    # timeout for the token client
    timeout: 2s
    
receivers:
  hostmetrics:
    scrapers:
      memory:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:

exporters:
  otlphttp/withauth:
    endpoint: http://localhost:9000
    auth:
      authenticator: oauth2client
      
  otlp/withauth:
    endpoint: 0.0.0.0:5000
    ca_file: /tmp/certs/ca.pem
    auth:
      authenticator: oauth2client

service:
  extensions: [oauth2client]
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [hostmetrics]
      processors: []
      exporters: [otlphttp/withauth, otlp/withauth]
```

Following are the configuration fields

- [**token_url**](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-3.2) - The resource server's token endpoint URLs.
- [**client_id**](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-2.2) - The client identifier issued to the client.
- **client_id_file** - The file path to retrieve the client identifier issued to the client.
  The extension reads this file and updates the client ID used whenever it needs to issue a new token. This enables dynamically changing the client credentials by modifying the file contents when, for example, they need to rotate. <!-- Intended whitespace for compact new line -->  
  This setting takes precedence over `client_id`.
- [**client_secret**](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-2.3.1) - The secret string associated with above identifier.
- **client_secret_file** - The file path to retrieve the secret string associated with above identifier.
  The extension reads this file and updates the client secret used whenever it needs to issue a new token. This enables dynamically changing the client credentials by modifying the file contents when, for example, they need to rotate. <!-- Intended whitespace for compact new line -->  
  This setting takes precedence over `client_secret`.
- [**endpoint_params**](https://github.com/golang/oauth2/blob/master/clientcredentials/clientcredentials.go#L44) - Additional parameters that are sent to the token endpoint.
- [**scopes**](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-3.3) - **Optional** optional requested permissions associated for the client.
- [**timeout**](https://golang.org/src/net/http/client.go#L90) -  **Optional** specifies the timeout on the underlying client to authorization server for fetching the tokens (initial and while refreshing).
  This is optional and not setting this configuration implies there is no timeout on the client.

For more information on client side TLS settings, see [configtls README](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/configtls).
