exporter/splunkhecexporter/README.md, before:

# Splunk HTTP Event Collector (HEC) Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq], [splunk] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fsplunkhec%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fsplunkhec) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fsplunkhec%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fsplunkhec) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@atoulme](https://www.github.com/atoulme), [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Configuration

The following configuration options are required:

- `token` (no default): HEC requires a token to authenticate incoming traffic. To procure a token, please refer to the [Splunk documentation](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Data/UsetheHTTPEventCollector).
- `endpoint` (no default): Splunk HEC URL.

The following configuration options can also be configured:

- `source` (no default): Optional Splunk source: https://docs.splunk.com/Splexicon:Source
- `sourcetype` (no default): Optional Splunk source type: https://docs.splunk.com/Splexicon:Sourcetype
- `index` (no default): Splunk index, optional name of the Splunk index targeted
- `max_connections` (default: 100): Maximum HTTP connections to use simultaneously when sending data. Deprecated: use `max_idle_conns` or `max_idle_conns_per_host` instead. See [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md) for more info.
- `use_multi_metric_format` (default: false): Combines metrics with the same metadata to reduce ingest using the [multiple-metric JSON format](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/9.0.0/Metrics/GetMetricsInOther#The_multiple-metric_JSON_format). Applicable in the `metrics` pipeline only.
- `disable_compression` (default: false): Whether to disable gzip compression over HTTP.
- `timeout` (default: 10s): HTTP timeout when sending data.
- `insecure_skip_verify` (default: false): Whether to skip checking the certificate of the HEC endpoint when sending data over HTTPS.
- `ca_file` (no default) Path to the CA cert to verify the server being connected to.
- `cert_file` (no default) Path to the TLS cert to use for client connections when TLS client auth is required.
- `key_file` (no default) Path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections.
- `max_content_length_logs` (default: 2097152): Maximum log payload size in bytes. Log batches of bigger size will be
  broken down into several requests. Default value is 2097152 bytes (2 MiB). Maximum allowed value is 838860800
  (~ 800 MB). Keep in mind that Splunk Observability backend doesn't accept requests bigger than 2 MiB. This
  configuration value can be raised only if used with Splunk Core/Cloud. When set to 0, it will treat as infinite length and it will create only 1 request per batch.
- `max_content_length_metrics` (default: 2097152): Maximum metric payload size in bytes. Metric batches of bigger size
  will be broken down into several requests. Default value is 2097152 bytes (2 MiB). Maximum allowed value is 838860800
  (~ 800 MB). When set to 0, it will treat as infinite length and it will create only one request per batch.
- `max_content_length_traces` (default: 2097152): Maximum trace payload size in bytes. Trace batches of bigger size
  will be broken down into several requests. Default value is 2097152 bytes (2 MiB). Maximum allowed value is 838860800
  (~ 800 MB). When set to 0, it will treat as infinite length and it will create only one request per batch.
- `max_event_size` (default: 5242880): Maximum raw uncompressed individual event size in bytes. Maximum allowed value is 838860800 (~ 800 MB).
- `splunk_app_name` (default: "OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib") App name is used to track telemetry information for Splunk App's using HEC by App name.
- `splunk_app_version` (default: Current OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib Build Version): App version is used to track telemetry information for Splunk App's using HEC by App version. 
- `log_data_enabled` (default: true): Specifies whether the log data is exported. Set it to `false` if you want the log 
  data to be dropped instead. Applicable in the `logs` pipeline only.
- `profiling_data_enabled` (default: true): Specifies whether the profiling data is exported. Set it to `false` if 
  you want the profiling data to be dropped instead. Applicable in the `logs` pipeline only.
- `health_path` (default = '/services/collector/health'): The path reporting [health checks](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/9.0.1/RESTREF/RESTinput#services.2Fcollector.2Fhealth).
- `health_check_enabled` (default = false): Whether to perform Splunk HEC Health Check during the exporter's startup.
- `export_raw` (default = false): send only the log's body, targeting a Splunk HEC raw endpoint.
- `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs/source` (default = 'com.splunk.source'): Specifies the mapping of a specific unified model attribute value to the standard source field of a HEC event.
- `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs/sourcetype` (default = 'com.splunk.sourcetype'): Specifies the mapping of a specific unified model attribute value to the standard sourcetype field of a HEC event.
- `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs/index` (default = 'com.splunk.index'):  Specifies the mapping of a specific unified model attribute value to the standard index field of a HEC event.
- `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs/host` (default = 'host.name'):  Specifies the mapping of a specific unified model attribute value to the standard host field and the `host.name` field of a HEC event.
- `otel_to_hec_fields/severity_text` (default = `otel.log.severity.text`): Specifies the name of the field to map the severity text field of log events.
- `otel_to_hec_fields/severity_number` (default = `otel.log.severity.number`): Specifies the name of the field to map the severity number field of log events.
- `otel_to_hec_fields/name` (default = `"otel.log.name`): Specifies the name of the field to map the name field of log events.
- `heartbeat/interval` (no default): Specifies the interval of sending hec heartbeat to the destination. If not specified, heartbeat is not enabled.
- `telemetry/enabled` (default: false): Specifies whether to enable telemetry inside splunk hec exporter.
- `telemetry/override_metrics_names` (default: empty map): Specifies the metrics name to overrides in splunk hec exporter.
- `telemetry/extra_attributes` (default: empty map): Specifies the extra metrics attributes in splunk hec exporter.

In addition, this exporter offers queued retry which is enabled by default.
Information about queued retry configuration parameters can be found
[here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md).
<br />
If you are getting throttled due to high volume of events the collector might experience memory issues, in those cases it is recommended to change the queued retry [configuration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/exporterhelper#configuration) to drop events more frequently, for example you can reduce the maximum amount of time spent trying to send a batch from 120s (default) to 60s:
```yaml
exporters:
  splunk_hec:
    retry_on_failure:
      max_elapsed_time: 60
```
If that does not resolve the memory issues you can try to reduce it further and adjust the other queued retry parameters accordingly.
<br />
As a last resort after you have tried to solve the memory issues by adjusting the queued retry configuration you can disable it altogether:

```yaml
exporters:
  splunk_hec:
    retry_on_failure:
      enabled: false
```
<br /><br />

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  splunk_hec:
    # Splunk HTTP Event Collector token.
    token: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-0000000000000"
    # URL to a Splunk instance to send data to.
    endpoint: "https://splunk:8088/services/collector"
    # Optional Splunk source: https://docs.splunk.com/Splexicon:Source
    source: "otel"
    # Optional Splunk source type: https://docs.splunk.com/Splexicon:Sourcetype
    sourcetype: "otel"
    # Splunk index, optional name of the Splunk index targeted.
    index: "metrics"
    # Maximum HTTP connections to use simultaneously when sending data. Defaults to 100.
    max_idle_conns: 200
    # Whether to disable gzip compression over HTTP. Defaults to false.
    disable_compression: false
    # HTTP timeout when sending data. Defaults to 10s.
    timeout: 10s
    tls:
      # Whether to skip checking the certificate of the HEC endpoint when sending data over HTTPS. Defaults to false.
      insecure_skip_verify: false
      # Path to the CA cert to verify the server being connected to.
      ca_file: /certs/ExampleCA.crt
      # Path to the TLS cert to use for client connections when TLS client auth is required.
      cert_file: /certs/HECclient.crt
      # Path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections.
      key_file: /certs/HECclient.key
    # Application name is used to track telemetry information for Splunk App's using HEC by App name.
    splunk_app_name: "OpenTelemetry-Collector Splunk Exporter"
    # Application version is used to track telemetry information for Splunk App's using HEC by App version.
    splunk_app_version: "v0.0.1"
    heartbeat:
      interval: 30s
    telemetry:
      enabled: true
      override_metrics_names:
        otelcol_exporter_splunkhec_heartbeats_sent: app_heartbeats_success_total
        otelcol_exporter_splunkhec_heartbeats_failed: app_heartbeats_failed_total
      extra_attributes:
        dataset_name: SplunkCloudBeaverStack
        custom_key: custom_value
```

The full list of settings exposed for this exporter are documented [here](config.go)
with detailed sample configurations [here](testdata/config.yaml).

This exporter also offers proxy support as documented
[here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter#proxy-support).

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Queuing, retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)

Commit message:

[exporter/splunkhec] - Add heartbeat check while startup (#24423)
**Description:** Add heartbeat check while startup. This is different
than the `healtcheck_startup`, as the latter doesn't take token or index
into account.

**Link to tracking Issue:**
[<24411>](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/24411)

**Testing:** Added relevant test cases

**Documentation:** <Describe the documentation added.>

---------

Co-authored-by: Curtis Robert <92119472+crobert-1@users.noreply.github.com>

exporter/splunkhecexporter/README.md, after:

# Splunk HTTP Event Collector (HEC) Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq], [splunk] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fsplunkhec%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fsplunkhec) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fsplunkhec%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fsplunkhec) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@atoulme](https://www.github.com/atoulme), [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Configuration

The following configuration options are required:

- `token` (no default): HEC requires a token to authenticate incoming traffic. To procure a token, please refer to the [Splunk documentation](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Data/UsetheHTTPEventCollector).
- `endpoint` (no default): Splunk HEC URL.

The following configuration options can also be configured:

- `source` (no default): Optional Splunk source: https://docs.splunk.com/Splexicon:Source
- `sourcetype` (no default): Optional Splunk source type: https://docs.splunk.com/Splexicon:Sourcetype
- `index` (no default): Splunk index, optional name of the Splunk index targeted
- `max_connections` (default: 100): Maximum HTTP connections to use simultaneously when sending data. Deprecated: use `max_idle_conns` or `max_idle_conns_per_host` instead. See [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md) for more info.
- `use_multi_metric_format` (default: false): Combines metrics with the same metadata to reduce ingest using the [multiple-metric JSON format](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/9.0.0/Metrics/GetMetricsInOther#The_multiple-metric_JSON_format). Applicable in the `metrics` pipeline only.
- `disable_compression` (default: false): Whether to disable gzip compression over HTTP.
- `timeout` (default: 10s): HTTP timeout when sending data.
- `insecure_skip_verify` (default: false): Whether to skip checking the certificate of the HEC endpoint when sending data over HTTPS.
- `ca_file` (no default) Path to the CA cert to verify the server being connected to.
- `cert_file` (no default) Path to the TLS cert to use for client connections when TLS client auth is required.
- `key_file` (no default) Path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections.
- `max_content_length_logs` (default: 2097152): Maximum log payload size in bytes. Log batches of bigger size will be
  broken down into several requests. Default value is 2097152 bytes (2 MiB). Maximum allowed value is 838860800
  (~ 800 MB). Keep in mind that Splunk Observability backend doesn't accept requests bigger than 2 MiB. This
  configuration value can be raised only if used with Splunk Core/Cloud. When set to 0, it will treat as infinite length and it will create only 1 request per batch.
- `max_content_length_metrics` (default: 2097152): Maximum metric payload size in bytes. Metric batches of bigger size
  will be broken down into several requests. Default value is 2097152 bytes (2 MiB). Maximum allowed value is 838860800
  (~ 800 MB). When set to 0, it will treat as infinite length and it will create only one request per batch.
- `max_content_length_traces` (default: 2097152): Maximum trace payload size in bytes. Trace batches of bigger size
  will be broken down into several requests. Default value is 2097152 bytes (2 MiB). Maximum allowed value is 838860800
  (~ 800 MB). When set to 0, it will treat as infinite length and it will create only one request per batch.
- `max_event_size` (default: 5242880): Maximum raw uncompressed individual event size in bytes. Maximum allowed value is 838860800 (~ 800 MB).
- `splunk_app_name` (default: "OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib") App name is used to track telemetry information for Splunk App's using HEC by App name.
- `splunk_app_version` (default: Current OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib Build Version): App version is used to track telemetry information for Splunk App's using HEC by App version. 
- `log_data_enabled` (default: true): Specifies whether the log data is exported. Set it to `false` if you want the log 
  data to be dropped instead. Applicable in the `logs` pipeline only.
- `profiling_data_enabled` (default: true): Specifies whether the profiling data is exported. Set it to `false` if 
  you want the profiling data to be dropped instead. Applicable in the `logs` pipeline only.
- `health_path` (default = '/services/collector/health'): The path reporting [health checks](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/9.0.1/RESTREF/RESTinput#services.2Fcollector.2Fhealth).
- `health_check_enabled` (default = false): Whether to perform Splunk HEC Health Check during the exporter's startup.
- `export_raw` (default = false): send only the log's body, targeting a Splunk HEC raw endpoint.
- `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs/source` (default = 'com.splunk.source'): Specifies the mapping of a specific unified model attribute value to the standard source field of a HEC event.
- `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs/sourcetype` (default = 'com.splunk.sourcetype'): Specifies the mapping of a specific unified model attribute value to the standard sourcetype field of a HEC event.
- `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs/index` (default = 'com.splunk.index'):  Specifies the mapping of a specific unified model attribute value to the standard index field of a HEC event.
- `hec_metadata_to_otel_attrs/host` (default = 'host.name'):  Specifies the mapping of a specific unified model attribute value to the standard host field and the `host.name` field of a HEC event.
- `otel_to_hec_fields/severity_text` (default = `otel.log.severity.text`): Specifies the name of the field to map the severity text field of log events.
- `otel_to_hec_fields/severity_number` (default = `otel.log.severity.number`): Specifies the name of the field to map the severity number field of log events.
- `otel_to_hec_fields/name` (default = `"otel.log.name`): Specifies the name of the field to map the name field of log events.
- `heartbeat/interval` (no default): Specifies the interval of sending hec heartbeat to the destination. If not specified, heartbeat is not enabled.
- `heartbeat/startup` (default: false): Check heartbeat at start up time. This action enforces a synchronous heartbeat action during the collector start up sequence. The collector will fail to start if the heartbeat returns an error.
- `telemetry/enabled` (default: false): Specifies whether to enable telemetry inside splunk hec exporter.
- `telemetry/override_metrics_names` (default: empty map): Specifies the metrics name to overrides in splunk hec exporter.
- `telemetry/extra_attributes` (default: empty map): Specifies the extra metrics attributes in splunk hec exporter.

In addition, this exporter offers queued retry which is enabled by default.
Information about queued retry configuration parameters can be found
[here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md).
<br />
If you are getting throttled due to high volume of events the collector might experience memory issues, in those cases it is recommended to change the queued retry [configuration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/exporterhelper#configuration) to drop events more frequently, for example you can reduce the maximum amount of time spent trying to send a batch from 120s (default) to 60s:
```yaml
exporters:
  splunk_hec:
    retry_on_failure:
      max_elapsed_time: 60
```
If that does not resolve the memory issues you can try to reduce it further and adjust the other queued retry parameters accordingly.
<br />
As a last resort after you have tried to solve the memory issues by adjusting the queued retry configuration you can disable it altogether:

```yaml
exporters:
  splunk_hec:
    retry_on_failure:
      enabled: false
```
<br /><br />

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  splunk_hec:
    # Splunk HTTP Event Collector token.
    token: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-0000000000000"
    # URL to a Splunk instance to send data to.
    endpoint: "https://splunk:8088/services/collector"
    # Optional Splunk source: https://docs.splunk.com/Splexicon:Source
    source: "otel"
    # Optional Splunk source type: https://docs.splunk.com/Splexicon:Sourcetype
    sourcetype: "otel"
    # Splunk index, optional name of the Splunk index targeted.
    index: "metrics"
    # Maximum HTTP connections to use simultaneously when sending data. Defaults to 100.
    max_idle_conns: 200
    # Whether to disable gzip compression over HTTP. Defaults to false.
    disable_compression: false
    # HTTP timeout when sending data. Defaults to 10s.
    timeout: 10s
    tls:
      # Whether to skip checking the certificate of the HEC endpoint when sending data over HTTPS. Defaults to false.
      insecure_skip_verify: false
      # Path to the CA cert to verify the server being connected to.
      ca_file: /certs/ExampleCA.crt
      # Path to the TLS cert to use for client connections when TLS client auth is required.
      cert_file: /certs/HECclient.crt
      # Path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections.
      key_file: /certs/HECclient.key
    # Application name is used to track telemetry information for Splunk App's using HEC by App name.
    splunk_app_name: "OpenTelemetry-Collector Splunk Exporter"
    # Application version is used to track telemetry information for Splunk App's using HEC by App version.
    splunk_app_version: "v0.0.1"
    heartbeat:
      interval: 30s
    telemetry:
      enabled: true
      override_metrics_names:
        otelcol_exporter_splunkhec_heartbeats_sent: app_heartbeats_success_total
        otelcol_exporter_splunkhec_heartbeats_failed: app_heartbeats_failed_total
      extra_attributes:
        dataset_name: SplunkCloudBeaverStack
        custom_key: custom_value
```

The full list of settings exposed for this exporter are documented [here](config.go)
with detailed sample configurations [here](testdata/config.yaml).

This exporter also offers proxy support as documented
[here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter#proxy-support).

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Queuing, retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
