pkg/ottl/contexts/ottldatapoint/README.md, before:

# DataPoint Context

The DataPoint Context is a Context implementation for [pdata DataPoints](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/pdata/pmetric), the collector's internal representation for OTLP metric data points.  This Context should be used when interacting with individual OTLP data points.

## Paths
In general, the DataPoint Context supports accessing pdata using the field names from the [metrics proto](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/opentelemetry/proto/metrics/v1/metrics.proto).  All integers are returned and set via `int64`.  All doubles are returned and set via `float64`.

The following paths are supported.

| path                                           | field accessed                                                                                                                                                                      | type                                                                    |
|------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| cache                                          | the value of the current transform context's temporary cache. cache can be used as a temporary placeholder for data during complex transformations                                  | pcommon.Map                                                             |
| cache\[""\]                                    | the value of an item in cache. Supports multiple indexes to access nested fields.                                                                                                   | string, bool, int64, float64, pcommon.Map, pcommon.Slice, []byte or nil |
| resource                                       | resource of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                          | pcommon.Resource                                                        |
| resource.attributes                            | resource attributes of the data point being processed                                                                                                                               | pcommon.Map                                                             |
| resource.attributes\[""\]                      | the value of the resource attribute of the data point being processed. Supports multiple indexes to access nested fields.                                                           | string, bool, int64, float64, pcommon.Map, pcommon.Slice, []byte or nil |
| resource.dropped_attributes_count              | number of dropped attributes of the resource of the data point being processed                                                                                                      | int64                                                                   |
| instrumentation_scope                          | instrumentation scope of the data point being processed                                                                                                                             | pcommon.InstrumentationScope                                            |
| instrumentation_scope.name                     | name of the instrumentation scope of the data point being processed                                                                                                                 | string                                                                  |
| instrumentation_scope.version                  | version of the instrumentation scope of the data point being processed                                                                                                              | string                                                                  |
| instrumentation_scope.dropped_attributes_count | number of dropped attributes of the instrumentation scope of the data point being processed                                                                                         | int64                                                                   |
| instrumentation_scope.attributes               | instrumentation scope attributes of the data point being processed                                                                                                                  | pcommon.Map                                                             |
| instrumentation_scope.attributes\[""\]         | the value of the instrumentation scope attribute of the data point being processed. Supports multiple indexes to access nested fields.                                              | string, bool, int64, float64, pcommon.Map, pcommon.Slice, []byte or nil |
| attributes                                     | attributes of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                        | pcommon.Map                                                             |
| attributes\[""\]                               | the value of the attribute of the data point being processed. Supports multiple indexes to access nested fields.                                                                    | string, bool, int64, float64, pcommon.Map, pcommon.Slice, []byte or nil |
| metric                                         | the metric to which the data point being processed belongs                                                                                                                          | pmetric.Metric                                                          |
| metric.*                                       | All fields exposed by the [ottlmetric context](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/ottl/contexts/ottlmetric) can accessed via `metric.` | varies                                                                  |
| positive                                       | the positive buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                                              | pmetric.ExponentialHistogramDataPoint                                   |
| positive.offset                                | the offset of the positive buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                                | int64                                                                   |
| positive.bucket_counts                         | the bucket_counts of the positive buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                         | uint64                                                                  |
| negative                                       | the negative buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                                              | pmetric.ExponentialHistogramDataPoint                                   |
| negative.offset                                | the offset of the negative buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                                | int64                                                                   |
| negative.bucket_counts                         | the bucket_counts of the negative buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                         | uint64                                                                  |
| start_time_unix_nano                           | the start time in unix nano of the data point being processed                                                                                                                       | int64                                                                   |
| time_unix_nano                                 | the time in unix nano of the data point being processed                                                                                                                             | int64                                                                   |
| value_double                                   | the double value of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                  | float64                                                                 |
| value_int                                      | the int value of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                     | int64                                                                   |
| exemplars                                      | the exemplars of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                     | pmetric.ExemplarSlice                                                   |
| flags                                          | the flags of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                         | int64                                                                   |
| count                                          | the count of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                         | int64                                                                   |
| sum                                            | the sum of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                           | float64                                                                 |
| bucket_counts                                  | the bucket counts of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                 | []float64                                                               |
| explicit_bounds                                | the explicit bounds of the data point being processed                                                                                                                               | []int64                                                                 |
| scale                                          | the scale of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                         | int64                                                                   |
| zero_count                                     | the zero_count of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                    | int64                                                                   |
| quantile_values                                | the quantile_values of the data point being processed                                                                                                                               | pmetric.SummaryDataPointValueAtQuantileSlice                            |

## Enums

The DataPoint Context supports the enum names from the [metrics proto](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/opentelemetry/proto/metrics/v1/metrics.proto). 

In addition, it also supports an enum for metrics data type, with the numeric value being [defined by pdata](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/pdata/pmetric/metrics.go).

| Enum Symbol                            | Value |
|----------------------------------------|-------|
| FLAG_NONE                              | 0     |
| FLAG_NO_RECORDED_VALUE                 | 1     |
| AGGREGATION_TEMPORALITY_UNSPECIFIED    | 0     |
| AGGREGATION_TEMPORALITY_DELTA          | 1     |
| AGGREGATION_TEMPORALITY_CUMULATIVE     | 2     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_NONE                  | 0     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_GAUGE                 | 1     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_SUM                   | 2     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_HISTOGRAM             | 3     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_EXPONENTIAL_HISTOGRAM | 4     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_SUMMARY               | 5     |

Commit message:

feat: edit contexts so they take time objects

pkg/ottl/contexts/ottldatapoint/README.md, after:

# DataPoint Context

The DataPoint Context is a Context implementation for [pdata DataPoints](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/pdata/pmetric), the collector's internal representation for OTLP metric data points.  This Context should be used when interacting with individual OTLP data points.

## Paths
In general, the DataPoint Context supports accessing pdata using the field names from the [metrics proto](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/opentelemetry/proto/metrics/v1/metrics.proto).  All integers are returned and set via `int64`.  All doubles are returned and set via `float64`.

The following paths are supported.

| path                                           | field accessed                                                                                                                                                                      | type                                                                    |
|------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| cache                                          | the value of the current transform context's temporary cache. cache can be used as a temporary placeholder for data during complex transformations                                  | pcommon.Map                                                             |
| cache\[""\]                                    | the value of an item in cache. Supports multiple indexes to access nested fields.                                                                                                   | string, bool, int64, float64, pcommon.Map, pcommon.Slice, []byte or nil |
| resource                                       | resource of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                          | pcommon.Resource                                                        |
| resource.attributes                            | resource attributes of the data point being processed                                                                                                                               | pcommon.Map                                                             |
| resource.attributes\[""\]                      | the value of the resource attribute of the data point being processed. Supports multiple indexes to access nested fields.                                                           | string, bool, int64, float64, pcommon.Map, pcommon.Slice, []byte or nil |
| resource.dropped_attributes_count              | number of dropped attributes of the resource of the data point being processed                                                                                                      | int64                                                                   |
| instrumentation_scope                          | instrumentation scope of the data point being processed                                                                                                                             | pcommon.InstrumentationScope                                            |
| instrumentation_scope.name                     | name of the instrumentation scope of the data point being processed                                                                                                                 | string                                                                  |
| instrumentation_scope.version                  | version of the instrumentation scope of the data point being processed                                                                                                              | string                                                                  |
| instrumentation_scope.dropped_attributes_count | number of dropped attributes of the instrumentation scope of the data point being processed                                                                                         | int64                                                                   |
| instrumentation_scope.attributes               | instrumentation scope attributes of the data point being processed                                                                                                                  | pcommon.Map                                                             |
| instrumentation_scope.attributes\[""\]         | the value of the instrumentation scope attribute of the data point being processed. Supports multiple indexes to access nested fields.                                              | string, bool, int64, float64, pcommon.Map, pcommon.Slice, []byte or nil |
| attributes                                     | attributes of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                        | pcommon.Map                                                             |
| attributes\[""\]                               | the value of the attribute of the data point being processed. Supports multiple indexes to access nested fields.                                                                    | string, bool, int64, float64, pcommon.Map, pcommon.Slice, []byte or nil |
| metric                                         | the metric to which the data point being processed belongs                                                                                                                          | pmetric.Metric                                                          |
| metric.*                                       | All fields exposed by the [ottlmetric context](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/ottl/contexts/ottlmetric) can accessed via `metric.` | varies                                                                  |
| positive                                       | the positive buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                                              | pmetric.ExponentialHistogramDataPoint                                   |
| positive.offset                                | the offset of the positive buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                                | int64                                                                   |
| positive.bucket_counts                         | the bucket_counts of the positive buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                         | uint64                                                                  |
| negative                                       | the negative buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                                              | pmetric.ExponentialHistogramDataPoint                                   |
| negative.offset                                | the offset of the negative buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                                | int64                                                                   |
| negative.bucket_counts                         | the bucket_counts of the negative buckets of the data point being processed                                                                                                         | uint64                                                                  |
| start_time_unix_nano                           | the start time in unix nano of the data point being processed                                                                                                                       | int64                                                                   |
| time                                           | the time in `time.Time` of the data point being processed                                                                                                                           | `time.Time`                                                             |
| start_time                                     | the start time in `time.Time` of the data point being processed                                                                                                                     | `time.Time`                                                             |
| time_unix_nano                                 | the time in unix nano of the data point being processed                                                                                                                             | int64                                                                   |
| value_double                                   | the double value of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                  | float64                                                                 |
| value_int                                      | the int value of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                     | int64                                                                   |
| exemplars                                      | the exemplars of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                     | pmetric.ExemplarSlice                                                   |
| flags                                          | the flags of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                         | int64                                                                   |
| count                                          | the count of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                         | int64                                                                   |
| sum                                            | the sum of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                           | float64                                                                 |
| bucket_counts                                  | the bucket counts of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                 | []float64                                                               |
| explicit_bounds                                | the explicit bounds of the data point being processed                                                                                                                               | []int64                                                                 |
| scale                                          | the scale of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                         | int64                                                                   |
| zero_count                                     | the zero_count of the data point being processed                                                                                                                                    | int64                                                                   |
| quantile_values                                | the quantile_values of the data point being processed                                                                                                                               | pmetric.SummaryDataPointValueAtQuantileSlice                            |

## Enums

The DataPoint Context supports the enum names from the [metrics proto](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/blob/main/opentelemetry/proto/metrics/v1/metrics.proto). 

In addition, it also supports an enum for metrics data type, with the numeric value being [defined by pdata](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/pdata/pmetric/metrics.go).

| Enum Symbol                            | Value |
|----------------------------------------|-------|
| FLAG_NONE                              | 0     |
| FLAG_NO_RECORDED_VALUE                 | 1     |
| AGGREGATION_TEMPORALITY_UNSPECIFIED    | 0     |
| AGGREGATION_TEMPORALITY_DELTA          | 1     |
| AGGREGATION_TEMPORALITY_CUMULATIVE     | 2     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_NONE                  | 0     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_GAUGE                 | 1     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_SUM                   | 2     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_HISTOGRAM             | 3     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_EXPONENTIAL_HISTOGRAM | 4     |
| METRIC_DATA_TYPE_SUMMARY               | 5     |
