# Google Cloud Spanner Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq], [sumo] |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Google Cloud Spanner enable you to investigate issues with your database
by exposing via [Total and Top N built-in tables](https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/introspection):
- Query statistics
- Read statistics
- Transaction statistics
- Lock statistics
- and others

_Note_: Total and Top N built-in tables are used with 1 minute statistics granularity.

The ultimate goal of Google Cloud Spanner Receiver is to collect and transform those statistics into metrics
that would be convenient for further analysis by users.

## Getting Started

The following configuration example is:

```yaml
receivers:
  googlecloudspanner:
    collection_interval: 60s
    top_metrics_query_max_rows: 100
    backfill_enabled: true
    cardinality_total_limit: 200000
    hide_topn_lockstats_rowrangestartkey: false
    projects:
      - project_id: "spanner project 1"
        service_account_key: "path to spanner project 1 service account json key"
        instances:
          - instance_id: "id1"
            databases:
              - "db11"
              - "db12"
          - instance_id: "id2"
            databases:
              - "db21"
              - "db22"
      - project_id: "spanner project 2"
        service_account_key: "path to spanner project 2 service account json key"
        instances:
          - instance_id: "id3"
            databases:
              - "db31"
              - "db32"
          - instance_id: "id4"
            databases:
              - "db41"
              - "db42"
```

Brief description of configuration properties:
- **googlecloudspanner** - name of the Cloud Spanner Receiver related section in OpenTelemetry collector configuration file
- **collection_interval** - this receiver runs periodically. Each time it runs, it queries Google Cloud Spanner, creates metrics, and sends them to the next consumer (default: 1 minute). **It is not recommended to change the default value of collection interval, since new values for metrics in the Spanner database appear only once a minute.**
- **top_metrics_query_max_rows** - max number of rows to fetch from Top N built-in table(100 by default)
- **backfill_enabled** - turn on/off 1-hour data backfill(by default it is turned off)
- **cardinality_total_limit** - limit of active series per 24 hours period. If specified, turns on cardinality filtering and handling. If zero or not specified, cardinality is not handled. You can read [this document](cardinality.md) for more information about cardinality handling and filtering.
- **hide_topn_lockstats_rowrangestartkey** - if true, masks PII (key values) in row_range_start_key label for the "top minute lock stats" metric
- **projects** - list of GCP projects
    - **project_id** - identifier of GCP project
    - **service_account_key** - path to service account JSON key It is highly recommended to set this property to the correct value. In case it is empty, the [Application Default Credentials](https://google.aip.dev/auth/4110) will be used for the database connection.
    - **instances** - list of Google Cloud Spanner instance for connection
        - **instance_id** - identifier of Google Cloud Spanner instance
        - **databases** - list of databases used from this instance

