exporter/loadbalancingexporter/README.md, before:

# Trace ID/Service-name aware load-balancing exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [aws], [grafana], [observiq], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Floadbalancing%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Floadbalancing) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Floadbalancing%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Floadbalancing) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@jpkrohling](https://www.github.com/jpkrohling) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[aws]: https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-otel-collector
[grafana]: https://github.com/grafana/agent
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This is an exporter that will consistently export spans and logs depending on the `routing_key` configured. If no `routing_key` is configured, the default routing mechanism is `traceID`. This means that spans belonging to the same `traceID` (or `service.name`, when `service` is used as the `routing_key`) will be sent to the same backend.

It requires a source of backend information to be provided: static, with a fixed list of backends, or DNS, with a hostname that will resolve to all IP addresses to use. The DNS resolver will periodically check for updates.

Note that either the Trace ID or Service name is used for the decision on which backend to use: the actual backend load isn't taken into consideration. Even though this load-balancer won't do round-robin balancing of the batches, the load distribution should be very similar among backends with a standard deviation under 5% at the current configuration.

This load balancer is especially useful for backends configured with tail-based samplers or red-metrics-collectors, which make a decision based on the view of the full trace.

When a list of backends is updated, some of the signals will be rerouted to different backends. 
Around R/N of the "routes" will be rerouted differently, where:

* A "route" is either a trace ID or a service name mapped to a certain backend.
* "R" is the total number of routes.
* "N" is the total number of backends.

This should be stable enough for most cases, and the larger the number of backends, the less disruption it should cause. Still, if routing stability is important for your use case and your list of backends are constantly changing, consider using the `groupbytrace` processor. This way, traces are dispatched atomically to this exporter, and the same decision about the backend is made for the trace as a whole.

This also supports service name based exporting for traces. If you have two or more collectors that collect traces and then use spanmetrics processor to generate metrics and push to prometheus, there is a high chance of facing label collisions on prometheus if the routing is based on `traceID` because every collector sees the `service+operation` label. With service name based routing, each collector can only see one service name and can push metrics without any label collisions.

## Configuration

Refer to [config.yaml](./testdata/config.yaml) for detailed examples on using the processor.

* The `otlp` property configures the template used for building the OTLP exporter. Refer to the OTLP Exporter documentation for information on which options are available. Note that the `endpoint` property should not be set and will be overridden by this exporter with the backend endpoint.
* The `resolver` accepts a `static` node, a `dns` or a `k8s` service. If all three are specified, `k8s` takes precedence.
* The `hostname` property inside a `dns` node specifies the hostname to query in order to obtain the list of IP addresses.
* The `dns` node also accepts the following optional properties:
  * `hostname` DNS hostname to resolve.
  * `port` port to be used for exporting the traces to the IP addresses resolved from `hostname`. If `port` is not specified, the default port 4317 is used.
  * `interval` resolver interval in go-Duration format, e.g. `5s`, `1d`, `30m`. If not specified, `5s` will be used.
  * `timeout` resolver timeout in go-Duration format, e.g. `5s`, `1d`, `30m`. If not specified, `1s` will be used.
* The `k8s` node accepts the following optional properties:
  * `service` Kubernetes service to resolve, e.g. `lb-svc.lb-ns`. If no namespace is specified, an attempt will be made to infer the namespace for this collector, and if this fails it will fall back to the `default` namespace.
  * `ports` port to be used for exporting the traces to the addresses resolved from `service`. If `ports` is not specified, the default port 4317 is used. When multiple ports are specified, two backends are added to the load balancer as if they were at different pods.
* The `routing_key` property is used to route spans to exporters based on different parameters. This functionality is currently enabled only for `trace` pipeline types. It supports one of the following values:
    * `service`: exports spans based on their service name. This is useful when using processors like the span metrics, so all spans for each service are sent to consistent collector instances for metric collection. Otherwise, metrics for the same services are sent to different collectors, making aggregations inaccurate. 
    * `traceID` (default): exports spans based on their `traceID`.
    * If not configured, defaults to `traceID` based routing.

Simple example
```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317

processors:

exporters:
  logging:
  loadbalancing:
    routing_key: "service"
    protocol:
      otlp:
        # all options from the OTLP exporter are supported
        # except the endpoint
        timeout: 1s
    resolver:
      static:
        hostnames:
        - backend-1:4317
        - backend-2:4317
        - backend-3:4317
        - backend-4:4317

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers:
        - otlp
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
    logs:
      receivers:
        - otlp
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
```

Kubernetes resolver example (For a more specific example: [example/k8s-resolver](./example/k8s-resolver/README.md))
```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317

processors:

exporters:
  logging:
  loadbalancing:
    routing_key: "service"
    protocol:
      otlp:
        # all options from the OTLP exporter are supported
        # except the endpoint
        timeout: 1s
    resolver:
      # use k8s service resolver, if collector runs in kubernetes environment
      k8s:
        service: lb-svc.kube-public
        ports:
          - 15317
          - 16317

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers:
        - otlp
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
    logs:
      receivers:
        - otlp
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
```

For testing purposes, the following configuration can be used, where both the load balancer and all backends are running locally:
```yaml
receivers:
  otlp/loadbalancer:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317
  otlp/backend-1:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:55690
  otlp/backend-2:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:55700
  otlp/backend-3:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:55710
  otlp/backend-4:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:55720

processors:

exporters:
  logging:
  loadbalancing:
    protocol:
      otlp:
        timeout: 1s
        tls:
          insecure: true
    resolver:
      static:
        hostnames:
        - localhost:55690
        - localhost:55700
        - localhost:55710
        - localhost:55720

service:
  pipelines:
    traces/loadbalancer:
      receivers:
        - otlp/loadbalancer
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing

    traces/backend-1:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-1
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging

    traces/backend-2:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-2
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging

    traces/backend-3:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-3
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging

    traces/backend-4:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-4
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging

    logs/loadbalancer:
      receivers:
        - otlp/loadbalancer
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
    logs/backend-1:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-1
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging
    logs/backend-2:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-2
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging
    logs/backend-3:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-3
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging
    logs/backend-4:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-4
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging
```

## Metrics

The following metrics are recorded by this processor:

* `otelcol_loadbalancer_num_resolutions` represents the total number of resolutions performed by the resolver specified in the tag `resolver`, split by their outcome (`success=true|false`). For the static resolver, this should always be `1` with the tag `success=true`.
* `otelcol_loadbalancer_num_backends` informs how many backends are currently in use. It should always match the number of items specified in the configuration file in case the `static` resolver is used, and should eventually (seconds) catch up with the DNS changes. Note that DNS caches that might exist between the load balancer and the record authority will influence how long it takes for the load balancer to see the change.
* `otelcol_loadbalancer_num_backend_updates` records how many of the resolutions resulted in a new list of backends. Use this information to understand how frequent your backend updates are and how often the ring is rebalanced. If the DNS hostname is always returning the same list of IP addresses but this metric keeps increasing, it might indicate a bug in the load balancer.
* `otelcol_loadbalancer_backend_latency` measures the latency for each backend.
* `otelcol_loadbalancer_backend_outcome` counts what the outcomes were for each endpoint, `success=true|false`.

Commit message:

[exporter/loadbalancing] allow metrics routing (#26378)
Closes #25858

**Description:** Add metrics exporter that will balance its metrics
considering new routing choices

**Link to tracking Issue:** #25858

**Testing:** Add tests for new routing choices and metrics exporter

---------

Signed-off-by: Claudio B <claudiobastos@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Juraci Paixão Kröhling <juraci.github@kroehling.de>

exporter/loadbalancingexporter/README.md, after:

# Trace ID/Service-name aware load-balancing exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces, logs   |
|               | [development]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [aws], [grafana], [observiq], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Floadbalancing%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Floadbalancing) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Floadbalancing%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Floadbalancing) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@jpkrohling](https://www.github.com/jpkrohling) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#development
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[aws]: https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-otel-collector
[grafana]: https://github.com/grafana/agent
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This is an exporter that will consistently export spans, metrics and logs depending on the `routing_key` configured.

The options for `routing_key` are: `service`, `traceID`, `metric` (metric name), `resource`.

| routing_key        | can be used for |
| ------------- |-----------|
| service | logs, spans, metrics |
| traceID | logs, spans |
| resource | metrics |
| metric | metrics |

If no `routing_key` is configured, the default routing mechanism is `traceID`  for traces, while `service` is the default for metrics. This means that spans belonging to the same `traceID` (or `service.name`, when `service` is used as the `routing_key`) will be sent to the same backend.

It requires a source of backend information to be provided: static, with a fixed list of backends, or DNS, with a hostname that will resolve to all IP addresses to use. The DNS resolver will periodically check for updates.

Note that either the Trace ID or Service name is used for the decision on which backend to use: the actual backend load isn't taken into consideration. Even though this load-balancer won't do round-robin balancing of the batches, the load distribution should be very similar among backends with a standard deviation under 5% at the current configuration.

This load balancer is especially useful for backends configured with tail-based samplers or red-metrics-collectors, which make a decision based on the view of the full trace.

When a list of backends is updated, some of the signals will be rerouted to different backends. 
Around R/N of the "routes" will be rerouted differently, where:

* A "route" is either a trace ID or a service name mapped to a certain backend.
* "R" is the total number of routes.
* "N" is the total number of backends.

This should be stable enough for most cases, and the larger the number of backends, the less disruption it should cause. Still, if routing stability is important for your use case and your list of backends are constantly changing, consider using the `groupbytrace` processor. This way, traces are dispatched atomically to this exporter, and the same decision about the backend is made for the trace as a whole.

This also supports service name based exporting for traces. If you have two or more collectors that collect traces and then use spanmetrics processor to generate metrics and push to prometheus, there is a high chance of facing label collisions on prometheus if the routing is based on `traceID` because every collector sees the `service+operation` label. With service name based routing, each collector can only see one service name and can push metrics without any label collisions.

## Configuration

Refer to [config.yaml](./testdata/config.yaml) for detailed examples on using the processor.

* The `otlp` property configures the template used for building the OTLP exporter. Refer to the OTLP Exporter documentation for information on which options are available. Note that the `endpoint` property should not be set and will be overridden by this exporter with the backend endpoint.
* The `resolver` accepts a `static` node, a `dns` or a `k8s` service. If all three are specified, `k8s` takes precedence.
* The `hostname` property inside a `dns` node specifies the hostname to query in order to obtain the list of IP addresses.
* The `dns` node also accepts the following optional properties:
  * `hostname` DNS hostname to resolve.
  * `port` port to be used for exporting the traces to the IP addresses resolved from `hostname`. If `port` is not specified, the default port 4317 is used.
  * `interval` resolver interval in go-Duration format, e.g. `5s`, `1d`, `30m`. If not specified, `5s` will be used.
  * `timeout` resolver timeout in go-Duration format, e.g. `5s`, `1d`, `30m`. If not specified, `1s` will be used.
* The `k8s` node accepts the following optional properties:
  * `service` Kubernetes service to resolve, e.g. `lb-svc.lb-ns`. If no namespace is specified, an attempt will be made to infer the namespace for this collector, and if this fails it will fall back to the `default` namespace.
  * `ports` port to be used for exporting the traces to the addresses resolved from `service`. If `ports` is not specified, the default port 4317 is used. When multiple ports are specified, two backends are added to the load balancer as if they were at different pods.
* The `routing_key` property is used to route spans to exporters based on different parameters. This functionality is currently enabled only for `trace` pipeline types. It supports one of the following values:
    * `service`: exports spans based on their service name. This is useful when using processors like the span metrics, so all spans for each service are sent to consistent collector instances for metric collection. Otherwise, metrics for the same services are sent to different collectors, making aggregations inaccurate. 
    * `traceID` (default): exports spans based on their `traceID`.
    * If not configured, defaults to `traceID` based routing.

Simple example
```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317

processors:

exporters:
  logging:
  loadbalancing:
    routing_key: "service"
    protocol:
      otlp:
        # all options from the OTLP exporter are supported
        # except the endpoint
        timeout: 1s
    resolver:
      static:
        hostnames:
        - backend-1:4317
        - backend-2:4317
        - backend-3:4317
        - backend-4:4317

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers:
        - otlp
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
    logs:
      receivers:
        - otlp
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
```

Kubernetes resolver example (For a more specific example: [example/k8s-resolver](./example/k8s-resolver/README.md))
```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317

processors:

exporters:
  logging:
  loadbalancing:
    routing_key: "service"
    protocol:
      otlp:
        # all options from the OTLP exporter are supported
        # except the endpoint
        timeout: 1s
    resolver:
      # use k8s service resolver, if collector runs in kubernetes environment
      k8s:
        service: lb-svc.kube-public
        ports:
          - 15317
          - 16317

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers:
        - otlp
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
    logs:
      receivers:
        - otlp
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
```

For testing purposes, the following configuration can be used, where both the load balancer and all backends are running locally:
```yaml
receivers:
  otlp/loadbalancer:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317
  otlp/backend-1:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:55690
  otlp/backend-2:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:55700
  otlp/backend-3:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:55710
  otlp/backend-4:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:55720

processors:

exporters:
  logging:
  loadbalancing:
    protocol:
      otlp:
        timeout: 1s
        tls:
          insecure: true
    resolver:
      static:
        hostnames:
        - localhost:55690
        - localhost:55700
        - localhost:55710
        - localhost:55720

service:
  pipelines:
    traces/loadbalancer:
      receivers:
        - otlp/loadbalancer
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing

    traces/backend-1:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-1
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging

    traces/backend-2:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-2
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging

    traces/backend-3:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-3
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging

    traces/backend-4:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-4
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging

    logs/loadbalancer:
      receivers:
        - otlp/loadbalancer
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - loadbalancing
    logs/backend-1:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-1
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging
    logs/backend-2:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-2
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging
    logs/backend-3:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-3
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging
    logs/backend-4:
      receivers:
        - otlp/backend-4
      processors: []
      exporters:
        - logging
```

## Metrics

The following metrics are recorded by this processor:

* `otelcol_loadbalancer_num_resolutions` represents the total number of resolutions performed by the resolver specified in the tag `resolver`, split by their outcome (`success=true|false`). For the static resolver, this should always be `1` with the tag `success=true`.
* `otelcol_loadbalancer_num_backends` informs how many backends are currently in use. It should always match the number of items specified in the configuration file in case the `static` resolver is used, and should eventually (seconds) catch up with the DNS changes. Note that DNS caches that might exist between the load balancer and the record authority will influence how long it takes for the load balancer to see the change.
* `otelcol_loadbalancer_num_backend_updates` records how many of the resolutions resulted in a new list of backends. Use this information to understand how frequent your backend updates are and how often the ring is rebalanced. If the DNS hostname is always returning the same list of IP addresses but this metric keeps increasing, it might indicate a bug in the load balancer.
* `otelcol_loadbalancer_backend_latency` measures the latency for each backend.
* `otelcol_loadbalancer_backend_outcome` counts what the outcomes were for each endpoint, `success=true|false`.
