# Humio Exporter
Exports data to Humio using JSON over the HTTP [Ingest API](https://docs.humio.com/reference/api/ingest/).

Supported pipeline types: traces (with metrics and logs to follow soon)

> :construction: This exporter is currently intended for evaluation purposes only!

## Getting Started
This exporter requires the following configuration options:

- `ingest_token` (no default): The token that has been issued in relation to the Humio repository to export data into. This token grants write-only access to a single, specific Humio repository. See [Ingest Tokens](https://docs.humio.com/docs/ingesting-data/ingest-tokens/) for more details.
- `endpoint` (no default): The base URL on which the Humio backend can be reached, in the form `host:port`.

As defined in the [TLS Configuration Settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md#tls-configuration-settings), TLS is enabled by default. Thus, to connect this exporter with a Humio instance on localhost, the following TLS options can be overridden:

- `insecure` (default: `false`): Whether to enable client transport security for the exporter's HTTP connection.
- `insecure_skip_verify` (default: `false`): Whether to skip verifying the server's certificate chain or not.

In addition, the following global configuration options can be overridden:

- `headers` (no default): A series of additional headers in the form of key-value pairs, which should be attached to every request to Humio. It is not possible to override the `Content-Type` or `Authorization` headers, as these are automatically generated by this exporter.
- `tags` (no default): A series of key-value pairs used to target specific Data Sources for storage inside a Humio repository. Refer to [Humio Tagging](https://docs.humio.com/docs/parsers/tagging/) for more details.
- `disable_service_tag` (default: `false`): By default, the service name will be used to tag all exported events in addition to user-provided tags. If disabled, only the user-provided tags will be used. However, at least one tag <u>must</u> be specified.

### Logs
For exporting unstructured data (logs), the following configuration options are available:

- `log_parser` (no default): The [parser](https://docs.humio.com/docs/parsers/) used by Humio to enrich the log statements, in case no parser has been attached to the ingest token.

### Traces
For exporting structured data (traces), the following configuration options are available:

- `unix_timestamps` (default: `false`): Whether to use Unix or ISO 8601 formatted timestamps when exporting data to Humio. If this is set to `true`, timestamps will be represented in milliseconds (Unix time) in UTC.
- `timezone` (default: host timezone): When using Unix timestamps, this option can be provided to specify the local timezone of the events. If not specified, the local time zone of the host is used instead.
- `timezone` (no default): When using Unix timestamps, this option <u>must</u> be provided to specify the local timezone of the events.
- `disable_rawstrings` (default: `false`): Whether to serialize structured traces as raw strings when exporting to Humio. These raw strings will be exported in addition to a structured representation of the trace.

> TODO: Can we control the number of HTTP connections we make to the ingest API? Would it be feasible to open up, say, a hundred connections?

> TODO: Is there an upper limit to how much data we can send at a time?

> TODO: Do they support gzip compression of payloads, or should we avoid this?

> TODO: Should we also make timeouts configurable?

> TODO: How can we represent the UTC timezone in a format understood by Humio?

## Advaced Configuration
This exporter, like many others, includes shared configuration helpers for the following advanced settings:

- [HTTP Client Configuration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/confighttp#client-configuration)
- [TLS Configuration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md#tls-configuration-settings)
- [Queueing, Retry, and Timeout Configuration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md#configuration)

## Example Configuration
Below are two examples of configurations specific to this exporter. For a more advanced example with all available configuration options, see [This Example](testdata/config.yaml).

```yaml
exporters:
    humio:
        ingest_token: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-0000000000000"
        endpoint: "my-humio-host:8080"
    humio/advanced:
        ingest_token: "00000000-0000-0000-0000-0000000000000"
        endpoint: "localhost:8080"
        insecure: true
        headers:
            User-Agent: "my-collector"
        timeout: 10s
        disable_service_tag: true
        tags:
            host: "web_server"
            environment: "production"
        logs:
            log_parser: "custom-parser"
        traces:
            unix_timestamps: true
            timezone: "Europe/Copenhagen"
            disable_rawstrings: true
```
