receiver/azureeventhubreceiver/README.md, before:

# Azure Event Hub Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics, logs, traces   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fazureeventhub%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fazureeventhub) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fazureeventhub%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fazureeventhub) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@atoulme](https://www.github.com/atoulme), [@cparkins](https://www.github.com/cparkins) \| Seeking more code owners! |
| Emeritus      | [@djaglowski](https://www.github.com/djaglowski) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Overview
Azure resources and services can be
[configured](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings)
to send their logs to an Azure Event Hub. The Azure Event Hub receiver pulls logs from an Azure
Event Hub, transforms them, and pushes them through the collector pipeline.

## Configuration

### connection (Required)
A string describing the connection to an Azure event hub.

### group (Optional)
The Consumer Group to read from. If empty will default to the default Consumer Group $Default

### partition (Optional)
The partition to watch. If empty, it will watch explicitly all partitions.

Default: ""

### offset (Optional)
The offset at which to start watching the event hub. If empty, it starts with the latest offset.

Default: ""

### format (Optional)
Determines how to transform the Event Hub messages into OpenTelemetry logs. See the "Format"
section below for details.

Default: "azure"

### apply_semantic_conventions (optional)
Determines whether Azure Resource Logs are translated into OpenTelemetry Logs using semantic
convention attribute names or not. When not applying semantic conventions, the log entry
attribute names are copied without any changes.

Default: `false` (semantic conventions are not applied)

### time_format (optional)

All supported time format for logs, metrics and traces. Default is empty string array, which means using the current iso8601 parser. The format is based on https://pkg.go.dev/time#Layout. If no time-zone info, will use UTC time.

Default: `nil`

### time_offset (optional)

The offset hours to parsed time. Mainly for cases when there's no time-zone info in time string.

Default: `0`.

### Example Configuration

```yaml
receivers:
  azureeventhub:
    connection: Endpoint=sb://namespace.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=RootManageSharedAccessKey;SharedAccessKey=superSecret1234=;EntityPath=hubName
    partition: foo
    group: bar
    offset: "1234-5566"
    format: "azure"
    # optional
    time_format:
      # All supported time format. Default is empty string array, which means using the current iso8601 parser. The format is based on https://pkg.go.dev/time#Layout. If no time-zone info, will use UTC time.
      logs: ["01/02/2006 15:04:05","2006-01-02 15:04:05","2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00"]
      metrics: [""]
      traces: [""]
    # optional
    time_offset:
      # The offset hours to parsed time. Mainly for cases when there's no time-zone info in time string. default is 0.
      logs: -8
      metrics: +8
      traces: -8
```

This component can persist its state using the [storage extension].

## Format

### raw

The "raw" format maps the AMQP properties and data into the
attributes and body of an OpenTelemetry LogRecord, respectively.
The body is represented as a raw byte array.

This format is not supported for Metrics.

### azure

The "azure" format extracts the Azure log records from the AMQP
message data, parses them, and maps the fields to OpenTelemetry
attributes. The table below summarizes the mapping between the 
[Azure common log format](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema)
and the OpenTelemetry attributes.


| Azure                            | OpenTelemetry                          | 
|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| callerIpAddress (optional)       | net.sock.peer.addr (attribute)         | 
| correlationId (optional)         | azure.correlation.id (attribute)       | 
| category (optional)              | azure.category (attribute)             | 
| durationMs (optional)            | azure.duration (attribute)             | 
| Level (optional)                 | severity_number, severity_text (field) | 
| location (optional)              | cloud.region (attribute)               | 
| —                                | cloud.provider (attribute)             | 
| operationName (required)         | azure.operation.name (attribute)       |
| operationVersion (optional)      | azure.operation.version (attribute)    | 
| properties (optional)            | azure.properties (attribute, nested)   | 
| resourceId (required)            | azure.resource.id (resource attribute) | 
| resultDescription (optional)     | azure.result.description (attribute)   | 
| resultSignature (optional)       | azure.result.signature (attribute)     | 
| resultType (optional)            | azure.result.type (attribute)          | 
| tenantId (required, tenant logs) | azure.tenant.id (attribute)            | 
| time or timeStamp (required)     | time_unix_nano (time takes precedence) |
| identity (optional)              | azure.identity (attribute, nested)     |

Notes:
* JSON does not distinguish between fixed and floating point numbers. All
JSON numbers are encoded as doubles.

For Metrics the Azure Metric Records are an array
of "records" with the following fields.

| Azure      | Open Telemetry                              |
|------------|---------------------------------------------|
| time       | time_unix_nano (field)                      |
| resourceId | azure.resource.id (resource attribute)      |
| metricName |                                             |
| timeGrain  | start_time_unix_nano (field)                |
| total      | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_TOTAL"   |
| count      | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_COUNT"   |
| minimum    | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_MINIMUM" |
| maximum    | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_MAXIMUM" |
| average    | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_AVERAGE" |

From this data a Metric of type Gauge is created
with a Data Points that represents the values
for the Metric including: Total, Minimum, Maximum,
Average and Count.

Traces based on Azure Application Insights array of records from `AppRequests` & `AppDependencies` with the following fields.

| Azure       | Open Telemetry                                        |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Time        | start_time(time_unix_nano(time))                      |
|             | end_time(start_time + time_unix_nano(durationMs))     |
| Name        | span.name                                             |
| OperationId | trace.id                                              |
| ParentId    | span.parentId                                         |
| Id          | span.id                                               |
| AppRoleName | service.name                                          |

[storage extension]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/storage

Commit message:

remove time_offset and fix other issues

receiver/azureeventhubreceiver/README.md, after:

# Azure Event Hub Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics, logs, traces   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fazureeventhub%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fazureeventhub) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fazureeventhub%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fazureeventhub) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@atoulme](https://www.github.com/atoulme), [@cparkins](https://www.github.com/cparkins) \| Seeking more code owners! |
| Emeritus      | [@djaglowski](https://www.github.com/djaglowski) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Overview
Azure resources and services can be
[configured](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings)
to send their logs to an Azure Event Hub. The Azure Event Hub receiver pulls logs from an Azure
Event Hub, transforms them, and pushes them through the collector pipeline.

## Configuration

### connection (Required)
A string describing the connection to an Azure event hub.

### group (Optional)
The Consumer Group to read from. If empty will default to the default Consumer Group $Default

### partition (Optional)
The partition to watch. If empty, it will watch explicitly all partitions.

Default: ""

### offset (Optional)
The offset at which to start watching the event hub. If empty, it starts with the latest offset.

Default: ""

### format (Optional)
Determines how to transform the Event Hub messages into OpenTelemetry logs. See the "Format"
section below for details.

Default: "azure"

### apply_semantic_conventions (optional)
Determines whether Azure Resource Logs are translated into OpenTelemetry Logs using semantic
convention attribute names or not. When not applying semantic conventions, the log entry
attribute names are copied without any changes.

Default: `false` (semantic conventions are not applied)

### time_format (optional)

All supported time format for logs, metrics and traces. Default is `nil` (unset), which means using the current iso8601 parser. The format is based on https://pkg.go.dev/time#Layout. If no time-zone info, will use UTC time. If all failed, it will use iso8601 format to parse.

Default: `nil`

### time_offset (optional)

The offset hours to parsed time. Mainly for cases when there's no time-zone info in time string.

Default: `0`.

### Example Configuration

```yaml
receivers:
  azureeventhub:
    connection: Endpoint=sb://namespace.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=RootManageSharedAccessKey;SharedAccessKey=superSecret1234=;EntityPath=hubName
    partition: foo
    group: bar
    offset: "1234-5566"
    format: "azure"
    # optional
    time_format:
      # All supported time format. Default is empty string array, which means using the current iso8601 parser. The format is based on https://pkg.go.dev/time#Layout. If no time-zone info, will use UTC time.
      logs: ["01/02/2006 15:04:05","2006-01-02 15:04:05","2006-01-02T15:04:05Z07:00"]
      metrics: ["01/02/2006 15:04:05"]
```

This component can persist its state using the [storage extension].

## Format

### raw

The "raw" format maps the AMQP properties and data into the
attributes and body of an OpenTelemetry LogRecord, respectively.
The body is represented as a raw byte array.

This format is not supported for Metrics.

### azure

The "azure" format extracts the Azure log records from the AMQP
message data, parses them, and maps the fields to OpenTelemetry
attributes. The table below summarizes the mapping between the 
[Azure common log format](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-schema)
and the OpenTelemetry attributes.


| Azure                            | OpenTelemetry                          | 
|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| callerIpAddress (optional)       | net.sock.peer.addr (attribute)         | 
| correlationId (optional)         | azure.correlation.id (attribute)       | 
| category (optional)              | azure.category (attribute)             | 
| durationMs (optional)            | azure.duration (attribute)             | 
| Level (optional)                 | severity_number, severity_text (field) | 
| location (optional)              | cloud.region (attribute)               | 
| —                                | cloud.provider (attribute)             | 
| operationName (required)         | azure.operation.name (attribute)       |
| operationVersion (optional)      | azure.operation.version (attribute)    | 
| properties (optional)            | azure.properties (attribute, nested)   | 
| resourceId (required)            | azure.resource.id (resource attribute) | 
| resultDescription (optional)     | azure.result.description (attribute)   | 
| resultSignature (optional)       | azure.result.signature (attribute)     | 
| resultType (optional)            | azure.result.type (attribute)          | 
| tenantId (required, tenant logs) | azure.tenant.id (attribute)            | 
| time or timeStamp (required)     | time_unix_nano (time takes precedence) |
| identity (optional)              | azure.identity (attribute, nested)     |

Notes:
* JSON does not distinguish between fixed and floating point numbers. All
JSON numbers are encoded as doubles.

For Metrics the Azure Metric Records are an array
of "records" with the following fields.

| Azure      | Open Telemetry                              |
|------------|---------------------------------------------|
| time       | time_unix_nano (field)                      |
| resourceId | azure.resource.id (resource attribute)      |
| metricName |                                             |
| timeGrain  | start_time_unix_nano (field)                |
| total      | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_TOTAL"   |
| count      | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_COUNT"   |
| minimum    | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_MINIMUM" |
| maximum    | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_MAXIMUM" |
| average    | mapped to datapoint metricName + "_AVERAGE" |

From this data a Metric of type Gauge is created
with a Data Points that represents the values
for the Metric including: Total, Minimum, Maximum,
Average and Count.

Traces based on Azure Application Insights array of records from `AppRequests` & `AppDependencies` with the following fields.

| Azure       | Open Telemetry                                        |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Time        | start_time(time_unix_nano(time))                      |
|             | end_time(start_time + time_unix_nano(durationMs))     |
| Name        | span.name                                             |
| OperationId | trace.id                                              |
| ParentId    | span.parentId                                         |
| Id          | span.id                                               |
| AppRoleName | service.name                                          |

[storage extension]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/storage
