receiver/windowseventlogreceiver/README.md, before:

## Windows Log Event Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs   |
| Distributions | [observiq], [splunk], [sumo] |
| Issues        | ![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fwindowseventlog%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry) ![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fwindowseventlog%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@djaglowski](https://www.github.com/djaglowski), [@armstrmi](https://www.github.com/armstrmi) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Tails and parses logs from windows event log API using the [opentelemetry-log-collection](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection) library.

### Configuration Fields

| Field                               | Default      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------------------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `channel`                           | required     | The windows event log channel to monitor                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `max_reads`                         | 100          | The maximum number of records read into memory, before beginning a new batch                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `start_at`                          | `end`        | On first startup, where to start reading logs from the API. Options are `beginning` or `end`                                                                                                                                                   |
| `poll_interval`                     | 1s           | The interval at which the channel is checked for new log entries. This check begins again after all new bodies have been read.                                                                                                                 |
| `attributes`                        | {}           | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's attributes.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `resource`                          | {}           | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's resource.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `operators`                         | []           | An array of [operators](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/operators/README.md#what-operators-are-available). See below for more details                                                            |
| `raw`                               | false        | If true, the windows events are not processed and sent as XML.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `storage`                           | none         | The ID of a storage extension to be used to store bookmarks. Bookmarks allow the receiver to pick up where it left off in the case of a collector restart. If no storage extension is used, the receiver will manage bookmarks in memory only. |
| `retry_on_failure.enabled`          | `false`      | If `true`, the receiver will pause reading a file and attempt to resend the current batch of logs if it encounters an error from downstream components.                                                                                        |
| `retry_on_failure.initial_interval` | `1 second`   | Time to wait after the first failure before retrying.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `retry_on_failure.max_interval`     | `30 seconds` | Upper bound on retry backoff interval. Once this value is reached the delay between consecutive retries will remain constant at the specified value.                                                                                           |
| `retry_on_failure.max_elapsed_time` | `5 minutes`  | Maximum amount of time (including retries) spent trying to send a logs batch to a downstream consumer. Once this value is reached, the data is discarded. Retrying never stops if set to `0`.                                                  |

### Operators

Each operator performs a simple responsibility, such as parsing a timestamp or JSON. Chain together operators to process logs into a desired format.

- Every operator has a `type`.
- Every operator can be given a unique `id`. If you use the same type of operator more than once in a pipeline, you must specify an `id`. Otherwise, the `id` defaults to the value of `type`.
- Operators will output to the next operator in the pipeline. The last operator in the pipeline will emit from the receiver. Optionally, the `output` parameter can be used to specify the `id` of another operator to which logs will be passed directly.
- Only parsers and general purpose operators should be used.

## Additional Terminology and Features

- An [entry](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/entry.md) is the base representation of log data as it moves through a pipeline. All operators either create, modify, or consume entries.
- A [field](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/field.md) is used to reference values in an entry.
- A common [expression](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/expression.md) syntax is used in several operators. For example, expressions can be used to [filter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/operators/filter.md) or [route](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/operators/router.md) entries.
- [timestamp](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/timestamp.md) parsing is available as a block within all parser operators, and also as a standalone operator. Many common timestamp layouts are supported.
- [severity](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/severity.md) parsing is available as a block within all parser operators, and also as a standalone operator. Stanza uses a flexible severity representation which is automatically interpreted by the stanza receiver.

### Example Configurations

#### Simple

Configuration:
```yaml
receivers:
    windowseventlog:
        channel: application
```

Output entry sample:
```json
{
    "channel": "Application",
    "computer": "computer name",
    "event_id":
    {
        "id": 10,
        "qualifiers": 0
    },
    "keywords": "[Classic]",
    "level": "Information",
    "message": "Test log",
    "opcode": "Info",
    "provider":
    {
        "event_source": "",
        "guid": "",
        "name": "otel"
    },
    "record_id": 12345,
    "system_time": "2022-04-15T15:28:08.898974100Z",
    "task": ""
}
```

Commit message:

[pkg/stanza/operator/input/windows] [receiver/windowseventlogreceiver] Add exclude providers (#24386)
Adds exclude providers array to the config, which tells which events to
exclude from processing by their provider name. Gives more control which
events not to process.

receiver/windowseventlogreceiver/README.md, after:

## Windows Log Event Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs   |
| Distributions | [observiq], [splunk], [sumo] |
| Issues        | ![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fwindowseventlog%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry) ![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fwindowseventlog%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@djaglowski](https://www.github.com/djaglowski), [@armstrmi](https://www.github.com/armstrmi) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Tails and parses logs from windows event log API using the [opentelemetry-log-collection](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection) library.

### Configuration Fields

| Field                               | Default      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------------------------|--------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `channel`                           | required     | The windows event log channel to monitor                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `max_reads`                         | 100          | The maximum number of records read into memory, before beginning a new batch                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `start_at`                          | `end`        | On first startup, where to start reading logs from the API. Options are `beginning` or `end`                                                                                                                                                   |
| `poll_interval`                     | 1s           | The interval at which the channel is checked for new log entries. This check begins again after all new bodies have been read.                                                                                                                 |
| `attributes`                        | {}           | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's attributes.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `resource`                          | {}           | A map of `key: value` pairs to add to the entry's resource.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `operators`                         | []           | An array of [operators](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/operators/README.md#what-operators-are-available). See below for more details                                                            |
| `raw`                               | false        | If true, the windows events are not processed and sent as XML. If used in combination with `exclude_providers`, each event will be processed in order to determine its provider name.                                                          |
| `exclude_providers`                 | []           | One or more event log providers to exclude from processing.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `storage`                           | none         | The ID of a storage extension to be used to store bookmarks. Bookmarks allow the receiver to pick up where it left off in the case of a collector restart. If no storage extension is used, the receiver will manage bookmarks in memory only. |
| `retry_on_failure.enabled`          | `false`      | If `true`, the receiver will pause reading a file and attempt to resend the current batch of logs if it encounters an error from downstream components.                                                                                        |
| `retry_on_failure.initial_interval` | `1 second`   | Time to wait after the first failure before retrying.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `retry_on_failure.max_interval`     | `30 seconds` | Upper bound on retry backoff interval. Once this value is reached the delay between consecutive retries will remain constant at the specified value.                                                                                           |
| `retry_on_failure.max_elapsed_time` | `5 minutes`  | Maximum amount of time (including retries) spent trying to send a logs batch to a downstream consumer. Once this value is reached, the data is discarded. Retrying never stops if set to `0`.                                                  |

### Operators

Each operator performs a simple responsibility, such as parsing a timestamp or JSON. Chain together operators to process logs into a desired format.

- Every operator has a `type`.
- Every operator can be given a unique `id`. If you use the same type of operator more than once in a pipeline, you must specify an `id`. Otherwise, the `id` defaults to the value of `type`.
- Operators will output to the next operator in the pipeline. The last operator in the pipeline will emit from the receiver. Optionally, the `output` parameter can be used to specify the `id` of another operator to which logs will be passed directly.
- Only parsers and general purpose operators should be used.

## Additional Terminology and Features

- An [entry](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/entry.md) is the base representation of log data as it moves through a pipeline. All operators either create, modify, or consume entries.
- A [field](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/field.md) is used to reference values in an entry.
- A common [expression](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/expression.md) syntax is used in several operators. For example, expressions can be used to [filter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/operators/filter.md) or [route](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/operators/router.md) entries.
- [timestamp](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/timestamp.md) parsing is available as a block within all parser operators, and also as a standalone operator. Many common timestamp layouts are supported.
- [severity](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-log-collection/blob/main/docs/types/severity.md) parsing is available as a block within all parser operators, and also as a standalone operator. Stanza uses a flexible severity representation which is automatically interpreted by the stanza receiver.

### Example Configurations

#### Simple

Configuration:
```yaml
receivers:
    windowseventlog:
        channel: application
```

Output entry sample:
```json
{
    "channel": "Application",
    "computer": "computer name",
    "event_id":
    {
        "id": 10,
        "qualifiers": 0
    },
    "keywords": "[Classic]",
    "level": "Information",
    "message": "Test log",
    "opcode": "Info",
    "provider":
    {
        "event_source": "",
        "guid": "",
        "name": "otel"
    },
    "record_id": 12345,
    "system_time": "2022-04-15T15:28:08.898974100Z",
    "task": ""
}
```
