receiver/k8sclusterreceiver/internal/container/documentation.md, before:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# k8s/container

**Parent Component:** k8s_cluster

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### k8s.container.cpu_limit

Maximum resource limit set for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {cpu} | Gauge | Double |

### k8s.container.cpu_request

Resource requested for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {cpu} | Gauge | Double |

### k8s.container.ephemeralstorage_limit

Maximum resource limit set for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.ephemeralstorage_request

Resource requested for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.memory_limit

Maximum resource limit set for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.memory_request

Resource requested for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.ready

Whether a container has passed its readiness probe (0 for no, 1 for yes)

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.restarts

How many times the container has restarted in the recent past. This value is pulled directly from the K8s API and the value can go indefinitely high and be reset to 0 at any time depending on how your kubelet is configured to prune dead containers. It is best to not depend too much on the exact value but rather look at it as either == 0, in which case you can conclude there were no restarts in the recent past, or > 0, in which case you can conclude there were restarts in the recent past, and not try and analyze the value beyond that.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.storage_limit

Maximum resource limit set for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.storage_request

Resource requested for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| container.id | The container id. | Any Str | true |
| container.image.name | The container image name | Any Str | true |
| container.image.tag | The container image tag | Any Str | true |
| k8s.container.name | The k8s container name | Any Str | true |
| k8s.namespace.name | The k8s namespace name | Any Str | true |
| k8s.node.name | The k8s node name | Any Str | true |
| k8s.pod.name | The k8s pod name | Any Str | true |
| k8s.pod.uid | The k8s pod uid | Any Str | true |
| opencensus.resourcetype | The OpenCensus resource type. | Any Str | true |

Commit message:

[receiver/k8scluster] Deprecate k8s.container.restarts to k8s.container.restart_count

receiver/k8sclusterreceiver/internal/container/documentation.md, after:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# k8s/container

**Parent Component:** k8s_cluster

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### k8s.container.cpu_limit

Maximum resource limit set for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {cpu} | Gauge | Double |

### k8s.container.cpu_request

Resource requested for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {cpu} | Gauge | Double |

### k8s.container.ephemeralstorage_limit

Maximum resource limit set for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.ephemeralstorage_request

Resource requested for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.memory_limit

Maximum resource limit set for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.memory_request

Resource requested for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.ready

Whether a container has passed its readiness probe (0 for no, 1 for yes)

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.restart_count

How many times the container has restarted in the recent past. This value is pulled directly from the K8s API and the value can go indefinitely high and be reset to 0 at any time depending on how your kubelet is configured to prune dead containers. It is best to not depend too much on the exact value but rather look at it as either == 0, in which case you can conclude there were no restarts in the recent past, or > 0, in which case you can conclude there were restarts in the recent past, and not try and analyze the value beyond that.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {restarts} | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.restarts

How many times the container has restarted in the recent past. This value is pulled directly from the K8s API and the value can go indefinitely high and be reset to 0 at any time depending on how your kubelet is configured to prune dead containers. It is best to not depend too much on the exact value but rather look at it as either == 0, in which case you can conclude there were no restarts in the recent past, or > 0, in which case you can conclude there were restarts in the recent past, and not try and analyze the value beyond that.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.storage_limit

Maximum resource limit set for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

### k8s.container.storage_request

Resource requested for the container. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#resourcerequirements-v1-core for details

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| container.id | The container id. | Any Str | true |
| container.image.name | The container image name | Any Str | true |
| container.image.tag | The container image tag | Any Str | true |
| k8s.container.name | The k8s container name | Any Str | true |
| k8s.namespace.name | The k8s namespace name | Any Str | true |
| k8s.node.name | The k8s node name | Any Str | true |
| k8s.pod.name | The k8s pod name | Any Str | true |
| k8s.pod.uid | The k8s pod uid | Any Str | true |
| opencensus.resourcetype | The OpenCensus resource type. | Any Str | true |
