receiver/zipkinreceiver/README.md, before:

# Zipkin Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib], [observiq], [splunk], [sumo] |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver receives spans from [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/) (V1 and V2).

## Getting Started

All that is required to enable the Zipkin receiver is to include it in the
receiver definitions.

```yaml
receivers:
  zipkin:
```

The following settings are configurable:

- `endpoint` (default = 0.0.0.0:9411): host:port to which the receiver is going
  to receive data. The valid syntax is described at
  https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/naming.md.

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [gRPC settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configgrpc/README.md) including CORS
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Queuing, retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)

Commit message:

[chore] [receiver/zipkin] fix configuration docs (#22701)
Corrected some invalid docs in README:
- This receiver does not use gRPC, replaced with HTTP config
- This receiver does not use queuing, retry and timeout settings from exporterhelper

receiver/zipkinreceiver/README.md, after:

# Zipkin Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib], [observiq], [splunk], [sumo] |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver receives spans from [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/) (V1 and V2).

## Getting Started

All that is required to enable the Zipkin receiver is to include it in the
receiver definitions.

```yaml
receivers:
  zipkin:
```

The following settings are configurable:

- `endpoint` (default = 0.0.0.0:9411): host:port on which the receiver is going to receive data.
- `parse_string_tags` (default = false): if enabled, the receiver will attempt to parse string tags/binary annotations into int/bool/float.

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP server settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md#server-configuration) including CORS
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
