receiver/hostmetricsreceiver/internal/scraper/processscraper/documentation.md, before:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# hostmetricsreceiver/process

**Parent Component:** hostmetrics

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### process.cpu.time

Total CPU seconds broken down by different states.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| s | Sum | Double | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| state | Breakdown of CPU usage by type. | Str: ``system``, ``user``, ``wait`` |

### process.disk.io

Disk bytes transferred.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | Direction of flow of bytes (read or write). | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### process.memory.usage

The amount of physical memory in use.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### process.memory.virtual

Virtual memory size.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### process.context_switches

Number of times the process has been context switched.

This metric is only available on Linux.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {count} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| type | Type of context switched. | Str: ``involuntary``, ``voluntary`` |

### process.cpu.utilization

Percentage of total CPU time used by the process since last scrape, expressed as a value between 0 and 1. On the first scrape, no data point is emitted for this metric.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| state | Breakdown of CPU usage by type. | Str: ``system``, ``user``, ``wait`` |

### process.disk.operations

Number of disk operations performed by the process.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {operations} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | Direction of flow of bytes (read or write). | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### process.memory.utilization

Percentage of total physical memory that is used by the process.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Double |

### process.open_file_descriptors

Number of file descriptors in use by the process.

This metric is only available on Linux.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {count} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### process.paging.faults

Number of page faults the process has made.

This metric is only available on Linux.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {faults} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| type | Type of memory paging fault. | Str: ``major``, ``minor`` |

### process.signals_pending

Number of pending signals for the process.

This metric is only available on Linux.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {signals} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### process.threads

Process threads count.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {threads} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| process.command | The command used to launch the process (i.e. the command name). On Linux based systems, can be set to the zeroth string in proc/[pid]/cmdline. On Windows, can be set to the first parameter extracted from GetCommandLineW. | Any Str | true |
| process.command_line | The full command used to launch the process as a single string representing the full command. On Windows, can be set to the result of GetCommandLineW. Do not set this if you have to assemble it just for monitoring; use process.command_args instead. | Any Str | true |
| process.executable.name | The name of the process executable. On Linux based systems, can be set to the Name in proc/[pid]/status. On Windows, can be set to the base name of GetProcessImageFileNameW. | Any Str | true |
| process.executable.path | The full path to the process executable. On Linux based systems, can be set to the target of proc/[pid]/exe. On Windows, can be set to the result of GetProcessImageFileNameW. | Any Str | true |
| process.owner | The username of the user that owns the process. | Any Str | true |
| process.parent_pid | Parent Process identifier (PPID). | Any Int | true |
| process.pid | Process identifier (PID). | Any Int | true |

Commit message:

hostmetricsreceiver: add process.handles metric
Adds a new Windows-exclusive metric called process.handles, which
represents the handle count of the given process. When enabled, the
receiver will make an additional syscall, specifically
`NtQuerySystemInformation` at the beginning of each scrape
to update the handle count for all processes on the system. If the
metric is enabled on a platform other than Windows, an error will be
produced when attempting to refresh handle counts. This matches the
rough behaviour of the Linux exclusive `process.open_file_descriptors`.

receiver/hostmetricsreceiver/internal/scraper/processscraper/documentation.md, after:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# hostmetricsreceiver/process

**Parent Component:** hostmetrics

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### process.cpu.time

Total CPU seconds broken down by different states.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| s | Sum | Double | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| state | Breakdown of CPU usage by type. | Str: ``system``, ``user``, ``wait`` |

### process.disk.io

Disk bytes transferred.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | Direction of flow of bytes (read or write). | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### process.memory.usage

The amount of physical memory in use.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### process.memory.virtual

Virtual memory size.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| By | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### process.context_switches

Number of times the process has been context switched.

This metric is only available on Linux.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {count} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| type | Type of context switched. | Str: ``involuntary``, ``voluntary`` |

### process.cpu.utilization

Percentage of total CPU time used by the process since last scrape, expressed as a value between 0 and 1. On the first scrape, no data point is emitted for this metric.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| state | Breakdown of CPU usage by type. | Str: ``system``, ``user``, ``wait`` |

### process.disk.operations

Number of disk operations performed by the process.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {operations} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| direction | Direction of flow of bytes (read or write). | Str: ``read``, ``write`` |

### process.handles

Number of handles held by the process.

This metric is only available on Windows.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {count} | Gauge | Int |

### process.memory.utilization

Percentage of total physical memory that is used by the process.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Double |

### process.open_file_descriptors

Number of file descriptors in use by the process.

This metric is only available on Linux.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {count} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### process.paging.faults

Number of page faults the process has made.

This metric is only available on Linux.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {faults} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | true |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| type | Type of memory paging fault. | Str: ``major``, ``minor`` |

### process.signals_pending

Number of pending signals for the process.

This metric is only available on Linux.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {signals} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

### process.threads

Process threads count.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type | Aggregation Temporality | Monotonic |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- | ----------------------- | --------- |
| {threads} | Sum | Int | Cumulative | false |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| process.command | The command used to launch the process (i.e. the command name). On Linux based systems, can be set to the zeroth string in proc/[pid]/cmdline. On Windows, can be set to the first parameter extracted from GetCommandLineW. | Any Str | true |
| process.command_line | The full command used to launch the process as a single string representing the full command. On Windows, can be set to the result of GetCommandLineW. Do not set this if you have to assemble it just for monitoring; use process.command_args instead. | Any Str | true |
| process.executable.name | The name of the process executable. On Linux based systems, can be set to the Name in proc/[pid]/status. On Windows, can be set to the base name of GetProcessImageFileNameW. | Any Str | true |
| process.executable.path | The full path to the process executable. On Linux based systems, can be set to the target of proc/[pid]/exe. On Windows, can be set to the result of GetProcessImageFileNameW. | Any Str | true |
| process.owner | The username of the user that owns the process. | Any Str | true |
| process.parent_pid | Parent Process identifier (PPID). | Any Int | true |
| process.pid | Process identifier (PID). | Any Int | true |
