exporter/prometheusremotewriteexporter/README.md, before:

# Prometheus Remote Write Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheusremotewrite%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheusremotewrite) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheusremotewrite%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheusremotewrite) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@Aneurysm9](https://www.github.com/Aneurysm9), [@rapphil](https://www.github.com/rapphil), [@dashpole](https://www.github.com/dashpole), [@ArthurSens](https://www.github.com/ArthurSens) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Prometheus Remote Write Exporter sends OpenTelemetry metrics
to Prometheus [remote write compatible
backends](https://prometheus.io/docs/operating/integrations/)
such as Cortex, Mimir, and Thanos.
By default, this exporter requires TLS and offers queued retry capabilities.

:warning: Non-cumulative monotonic, histogram, and summary OTLP metrics are
dropped by this exporter.

A [design doc](DESIGN.md) is available to document in detail
how this exporter works.

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (no default): The remote write URL to send remote write samples.

By default, TLS is enabled and must be configured under `tls:`:

- `insecure` (default = `false`): whether to enable client transport security for
  the exporter's connection.

As a result, the following parameters are also required under `tls:`:

- `cert_file` (no default): path to the TLS cert to use for TLS required connections. Should
  only be used if `insecure` is set to false.
- `key_file` (no default): path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections. Should
  only be used if `insecure` is set to false.

The following settings can be optionally configured:

- `external_labels`: map of labels names and values to be attached to each metric data point
- `headers`: additional headers attached to each HTTP request.
  - *Note the following headers cannot be changed: `Content-Encoding`, `Content-Type`, `X-Prometheus-Remote-Write-Version`, and `User-Agent`.*
- `namespace`: prefix attached to each exported metric name.
- `add_metric_suffixes`: If set to false, type and unit suffixes will not be added to metrics. Default: true.
- `send_metadata`: If set to true, prometheus metadata will be generated and sent. Default: false.
- `remote_write_queue`: fine tuning for queueing and sending of the outgoing remote writes.
  - `enabled`: enable the sending queue (default: `true`)
  - `queue_size`: number of OTLP metrics that can be queued. Ignored if `enabled` is `false` (default: `10000`)
  - `num_consumers`: minimum number of workers to use to fan out the outgoing requests. (default: `5`)
- `resource_to_telemetry_conversion`
  - `enabled` (default = false): If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes will be converted to metric labels by default.
- `target_info`: customize `target_info` metric
  - `enabled` (default = true): If `enabled` is `true`, a `target_info` metric will be generated for each resource metric (see https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2381).
- `export_created_metric`: `WARNING` Deprecated and planned for removal in v0.116.0. See [related issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/35003) for more information. 
  - `enabled` (default = false): If `enabled` is `true`, a `_created` metric is
    exported for Summary, Histogram, and Monotonic Sum metric points if
    `StartTimeUnixNano` is set.
- `max_batch_size_bytes` (default = `3000000` -> `~2.861 mb`): Maximum size of a batch of
  samples to be sent to the remote write endpoint. If the batch size is larger
  than this value, it will be split into multiple batches.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    endpoint: "https://my-cortex:7900/api/v1/push"
    wal: # Enabling the Write-Ahead-Log for the exporter.
      directory: ./prom_rw # The directory to store the WAL in
      buffer_size: 100 # Optional count of elements to be read from the WAL before truncating; default of 300
      truncate_frequency: 45s # Optional frequency for how often the WAL should be truncated. It is a time.ParseDuration; default of 1m
    resource_to_telemetry_conversion:
      enabled: true # Convert resource attributes to metric labels
```

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    endpoint: "https://my-cortex:7900/api/v1/push"
    external_labels:
      label_name1: label_value1
      label_name2: label_value2
```

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md), note that the exporter doesn't support `sending_queue` but provides `remote_write_queue`.

### Feature gates
This exporter has feature gate: `exporter.prometheusremotewritexporter.RetryOn429`.
When this feature gate is enable the prometheus remote write exporter will retry on 429 http status code with the provided retry configuration.
It currently doesn't support respecting the http header `Retry-After` if provided since the retry library used doesn't support this feature.

To enable it run collector with enabled feature gate `exporter.prometheusremotewritexporter.RetryOn429`. This can be done by executing it with one additional parameter - `--feature-gates=telemetry.useOtelForInternalMetrics`.

## Metric names and labels normalization

OpenTelemetry metric names and attributes are normalized to be compliant with Prometheus naming rules. [Details on this normalization process are described in the Prometheus translator module](../../pkg/translator/prometheus/).

## Setting resource attributes as metric labels

By default, resource attributes are added to a special metric called `target_info`. To select and group by metrics by resource attributes, you [need to do join on `target_info`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/operators/#many-to-one-and-one-to-many-vector-matches). For example, to select metrics with `k8s_namespace_name` attribute equal to `my-namespace`:

```promql
app_ads_ad_requests_total * on (job, instance) group_left target_info{k8s_namespace_name="my-namespace"}
```

Or to group by a particular attribute (for ex. `k8s_namespace_name`):

```promql
sum by (k8s_namespace_name) (app_ads_ad_requests_total * on (job, instance) group_left(k8s_namespace_name) target_info)
```

This is not a common pattern, and we recommend copying the most common resource attributes into metric labels. You can do this through the transform processor:

```yaml
processor:
  transform:
    metric_statements:
      - context: datapoint
        statements:
        - set(attributes["namespace"], resource.attributes["k8s.namespace.name"])
        - set(attributes["container"], resource.attributes["k8s.container.name"])
        - set(attributes["pod"], resource.attributes["k8s.pod.name"])
```

After this, grouping or selecting becomes as simple as:

```promql
app_ads_ad_requests_total{namespace="my-namespace"}

sum by (namespace) (app_ads_ad_requests_total)
```

[beta]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[core]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol

Commit message:

feat/re-allow multiple workers

exporter/prometheusremotewriteexporter/README.md, after:

# Prometheus Remote Write Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheusremotewrite%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheusremotewrite) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheusremotewrite%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fprometheusremotewrite) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@Aneurysm9](https://www.github.com/Aneurysm9), [@rapphil](https://www.github.com/rapphil), [@dashpole](https://www.github.com/dashpole), [@ArthurSens](https://www.github.com/ArthurSens) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Prometheus Remote Write Exporter sends OpenTelemetry metrics
to Prometheus [remote write compatible
backends](https://prometheus.io/docs/operating/integrations/)
such as Cortex, Mimir, and Thanos.
By default, this exporter requires TLS and offers queued retry capabilities.

:warning: Non-cumulative monotonic, histogram, and summary OTLP metrics are
dropped by this exporter.

A [design doc](DESIGN.md) is available to document in detail
how this exporter works.

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (no default): The remote write URL to send remote write samples.

By default, TLS is enabled and must be configured under `tls:`:

- `insecure` (default = `false`): whether to enable client transport security for
  the exporter's connection.

As a result, the following parameters are also required under `tls:`:

- `cert_file` (no default): path to the TLS cert to use for TLS required connections. Should
  only be used if `insecure` is set to false.
- `key_file` (no default): path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections. Should
  only be used if `insecure` is set to false.

The following settings can be optionally configured:

- `external_labels`: map of labels names and values to be attached to each metric data point
- `headers`: additional headers attached to each HTTP request.
  - *Note the following headers cannot be changed: `Content-Encoding`, `Content-Type`, `X-Prometheus-Remote-Write-Version`, and `User-Agent`.*
- `namespace`: prefix attached to each exported metric name.
- `add_metric_suffixes`: If set to false, type and unit suffixes will not be added to metrics. Default: true.
- `send_metadata`: If set to true, prometheus metadata will be generated and sent. Default: false.
- `remote_write_queue`: fine tuning for queueing and sending of the outgoing remote writes.
  - `enabled`: enable the sending queue (default: `true`)
  - `queue_size`: number of OTLP metrics that can be queued. Ignored if `enabled` is `false` (default: `10000`)
  - `num_consumers`: minimum number of workers to use to fan out the outgoing requests. (default: `5` or default: `1` if `EnableMultipleWorkersFeatureGate` is enabled).
- `resource_to_telemetry_conversion`
  - `enabled` (default = false): If `enabled` is `true`, all the resource attributes will be converted to metric labels by default.
- `target_info`: customize `target_info` metric
  - `enabled` (default = true): If `enabled` is `true`, a `target_info` metric will be generated for each resource metric (see https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2381).
- `export_created_metric`: `WARNING` Deprecated and planned for removal in v0.116.0. See [related issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/35003) for more information. 
  - `enabled` (default = false): If `enabled` is `true`, a `_created` metric is
    exported for Summary, Histogram, and Monotonic Sum metric points if
    `StartTimeUnixNano` is set.
- `max_batch_size_bytes` (default = `3000000` -> `~2.861 mb`): Maximum size of a batch of
  samples to be sent to the remote write endpoint. If the batch size is larger
  than this value, it will be split into multiple batches.
- `max_batch_request_parallelism` (default = `5`): Maximum parallelism allowed for a single request bigger than `max_batch_size_bytes`.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    endpoint: "https://my-cortex:7900/api/v1/push"
    wal: # Enabling the Write-Ahead-Log for the exporter.
      directory: ./prom_rw # The directory to store the WAL in
      buffer_size: 100 # Optional count of elements to be read from the WAL before truncating; default of 300
      truncate_frequency: 45s # Optional frequency for how often the WAL should be truncated. It is a time.ParseDuration; default of 1m
    resource_to_telemetry_conversion:
      enabled: true # Convert resource attributes to metric labels
```

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    endpoint: "https://my-cortex:7900/api/v1/push"
    external_labels:
      label_name1: label_value1
      label_name2: label_value2
```

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md), note that the exporter doesn't support `sending_queue` but provides `remote_write_queue`.

### Feature gates

#### RetryOn429

This exporter has feature gate: `exporter.prometheusremotewritexporter.RetryOn429`.
When this feature gate is enable the prometheus remote write exporter will retry on 429 http status code with the provided retry configuration.
It currently doesn't support respecting the http header `Retry-After` if provided since the retry library used doesn't support this feature.

To enable it run collector with enabled feature gate `exporter.prometheusremotewritexporter.RetryOn429`. This can be done by executing it with one additional parameter - `--feature-gates=telemetry.useOtelForInternalMetrics`.

#### EnableMultipleWorkersFeatureGate

This exporter has feature gate: `+exporter.prometheusremotewritexporter.EnableMultipleWorkers`.

When this feature gate is enabled, `num_consumers` will be used as the worker counter for handling batches from the queue, and `max_batch_request_parallelism` will be used for parallelism on single batch bigger than `max_batch_size_bytes`.
Enabling this feature gate, with `num_consumers` higher than 1 requires the target destination to supports ingestion of OutOfOrder samples. See [Multiple Consumers and OutOfOrder](#multiple-consumers-and-outoforder) for more info

## Metric names and labels normalization

OpenTelemetry metric names and attributes are normalized to be compliant with Prometheus naming rules. [Details on this normalization process are described in the Prometheus translator module](../../pkg/translator/prometheus/).

## Setting resource attributes as metric labels

By default, resource attributes are added to a special metric called `target_info`. To select and group by metrics by resource attributes, you [need to do join on `target_info`](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/operators/#many-to-one-and-one-to-many-vector-matches). For example, to select metrics with `k8s_namespace_name` attribute equal to `my-namespace`:

```promql
app_ads_ad_requests_total * on (job, instance) group_left target_info{k8s_namespace_name="my-namespace"}
```

Or to group by a particular attribute (for ex. `k8s_namespace_name`):

```promql
sum by (k8s_namespace_name) (app_ads_ad_requests_total * on (job, instance) group_left(k8s_namespace_name) target_info)
```

This is not a common pattern, and we recommend copying the most common resource attributes into metric labels. You can do this through the transform processor:

```yaml
processor:
  transform:
    metric_statements:
      - context: datapoint
        statements:
        - set(attributes["namespace"], resource.attributes["k8s.namespace.name"])
        - set(attributes["container"], resource.attributes["k8s.container.name"])
        - set(attributes["pod"], resource.attributes["k8s.pod.name"])
```

After this, grouping or selecting becomes as simple as:

```promql
app_ads_ad_requests_total{namespace="my-namespace"}

sum by (namespace) (app_ads_ad_requests_total)
```

[beta]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[core]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol

## Multiple Consumers and OutOfOrder

**DISCLAIMER**: This snippet applies only to Prometheus, other remote write destinations using Prometheus Protocol (ex: Thanos/Grafana Mimir/VictoriaMetrics) may have different settings.

By default, Prometheus expects samples to be ingested sequentially, in temporal order.

When multiple consumers are enabled, the temporal ordering of the samples written to the target destination is not deterministic, and temporal ordering can no longer be guaranteed. For example, one worker may push a sample for `t+30s`, and a second worker may push an additional sample but for `t+15s`.

Vanilla Prometheus configurations will reject these unordered samples and you'll receive "out of order" errors.

Out-of-order support in Prometheus must be enabled for multiple consumers.
This can be done by using the `tsdb.out_of_order_time_window: 10m` settings. Please choose an appropriate time window to support pushing the worst-case scenarios of a "queue" build-up on the sender side.

See for more info:
- https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#tsdb
