exporter/datasetexporter/README.md, before:

# DataSet Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs, traces   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | ![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fdataset%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry) ![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fdataset%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This exporter sends logs to [DataSet](https://www.dataset.com/).

See the [Getting Started](https://app.scalyr.com/help/getting-started) guide.

## Configuration

### Required Settings

- `dataset_url` (no default): The URL of the DataSet API that ingests the data. Most likely https://app.scalyr.com.
- `api_key` (no default): The "Log Write" API Key required to use API. Instructions how to get [API key](https://app.scalyr.com/help/api-keys).

If you do not want to specify `api_key` in the file, you can use the [builtin functionality](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/configuration/#configuration-environment-variables) and use `api_key: ${env:DATASET_API_KEY}`.

### Server Host Settings

Specifying the server host is crucial for ensuring the correct functionality of DataSet. 
DataSet expects the server host value to be provided in the `serverHost` attribute. 
If the server host value is stored in a different attribute, you can use the [attributesprocessor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/attributesprocessor) to copy it into the serverHost attribute.

You can also utilize the `server_host` settings (described below) to populate the serverHost attribute with different values.

The process of populating the serverHost attribute works as follows:

If the `serverHost` attribute is specified and not empty, it remains unchanged.
If the `serverHost` attribute is not specified or empty, the value from the `server_host.server_host` setting is used.
If the `serverHost` attribute is still not specified or empty, and the `server_host.use_host_name` setting is set to `true`, the `hostname` of the node is used as a fallback value.

Make sure to provide the appropriate server host value in the `serverHost` attribute to ensure the proper functionality of DataSet and accurate handling of events.

### Optional Settings

- `buffer`:
  - `max_lifetime` (default = 5s): The maximum delay between sending batches from the same source.
  - `group_by` (default = []): The list of attributes based on which events should be grouped.
  - `retry_initial_interval` (default = 5s): Time to wait after the first failure before retrying.
  - `retry_max_interval` (default = 30s): Is the upper bound on backoff.
  - `retry_max_elapsed_time` (default = 300s): Is the maximum amount of time spent trying to send a buffer.
- `logs`:
  - `export_resource_info_on_event` (default = false): Include resource info to DataSet Event while exporting Logs. This is especially useful when reducing DataSet billable log volume.
- `server_host`:
  - `server_host` (default = ''): Specifies the server host to be used for the events. By default, no specific value is set.
  - `use_host_name` (default = true): Determines whether the `hostname` of the node should be used as the server host for the events. When set to `true`, the node's `hostname` is automatically used.
- `retry_on_failure`: See [retry_on_failure](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
- `sending_queue`: See [sending_queue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
- `timeout`: See [timeout](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)

### Example

```yaml
processors:
  attributes:
    - key: serverHost
      action: insert
      from_attribute: container_id

exporters:
  dataset/logs:
    # DataSet API URL, https://app.eu.scalyr.com for DataSet EU instance
    dataset_url: https://app.scalyr.com
    # API Key
    api_key: your_api_key
    buffer:
      # Send buffer to the API at least every 5s
      max_lifetime: 5s
      # Group data based on these attributes
      group_by:
        - container_id
    server_host:
      # If these attribute serverHost is not specified or empty,
      # use the value from the env variable SERVER_HOST
      use_host: ${env:SERVER_HOST}
      # If it's not set, use the hostname value
      use_host_name: true

  dataset/traces:
    # DataSet API URL, https://app.eu.scalyr.com for DataSet EU instance
    dataset_url: https://app.scalyr.com
    # API Key
    api_key: your_api_key
    buffer:
      max_lifetime: 15s
      group_by:
        - resource_service.instance.id

service:
  pipelines:
    logs:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch, attributes]
      # add dataset among your exporters
      exporters: [dataset/logs]
    traces:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      # add dataset among your exporters
      exporters: [dataset/traces]
```

## Examples

### Handling `serverHost` Attribute

Based on the given configuration and scenarios, here's the expected behavior:

1. Log: `{'container_id': 'cont-payment-01'}`, Env: `SERVER_HOST='payments-01'`, Hostname: `ip-172-31-27-19`
   * Since the attribute `container_id` is set, `attributesprocessor` will copy this value to the `serverHost`.
   * The resulting event will be: `{'container_id': 'cont-payment-01', 'serverHost': 'cont-payment-01'}`.
2. Log: `{'attribute.foo': 'Bar'}`, Env: `SERVER_HOST='payments-01'`, Hostname: `ip-172-31-27-19`
   * Since the attribute `container_id` is not set, the value from the environmental variable `SERVER_HOST`  will be copied to the `serverHost`.
   * The resulting event will be: `{'attribute.foo': 'Bar', 'serverHost': 'payments-01'}`.
3. Log: `{'attribute.foo': 'Bar'}`, Env: `SERVER_HOST=''`, Hostname: `ip-172-31-27-19`
   * Since the attribute `container_id` is not set and the environmental variable `SERVER_HOST` is empty, the `hostname` of the node (`ip-172-31-27-19`) will be used as the fallback value for `serverHost`. 
   * The resulting event will be: `{'attribute.foo': 'Bar', 'serverHost': 'ip-172-31-27-19'}`.

Commit message:

Use serverHost from the resource

exporter/datasetexporter/README.md, after:

# DataSet Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs, traces   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | ![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fdataset%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry) ![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fdataset%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This exporter sends logs to [DataSet](https://www.dataset.com/).

See the [Getting Started](https://app.scalyr.com/help/getting-started) guide.

## Configuration

### Required Settings

- `dataset_url` (no default): The URL of the DataSet API that ingests the data. Most likely https://app.scalyr.com.
- `api_key` (no default): The "Log Write" API Key required to use API. Instructions how to get [API key](https://app.scalyr.com/help/api-keys).

If you do not want to specify `api_key` in the file, you can use the [builtin functionality](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/configuration/#configuration-environment-variables) and use `api_key: ${env:DATASET_API_KEY}`.

### Server Host Settings

Specifying the server host is crucial for ensuring the correct functionality of DataSet. 
DataSet expects the server host value to be provided in the `serverHost` attribute. 
If the server host value is stored in a different attribute, you can use the [resourceprocessor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/resourceprocessor/README.md) or [attributesprocessor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/attributesprocessor) to copy it into the `serverHost` attribute.

You can also utilize the `server_host` settings (described below) to populate the serverHost attribute with different values.

The process of populating the serverHost attribute works as follows:

If the `serverHost` attribute is specified and not empty in the log or trace, then it's used.
If the `serverHost` attribute is specified and not empty in the [resource](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/resource/sdk/), then it is used.
If the `serverHost` attribute is not specified or empty, the value from the `server_host.server_host` setting is used.
If the `serverHost` attribute is still not specified or empty, and the `server_host.use_host_name` setting is set to `true`, the `hostname` of the node is used as a fallback value.

Make sure to provide the appropriate server host value in the `serverHost` attribute to ensure the proper functionality of DataSet and accurate handling of events.

### Optional Settings

- `buffer`:
  - `max_lifetime` (default = 5s): The maximum delay between sending batches from the same source.
  - `group_by` (default = []): The list of attributes based on which events should be grouped.
  - `retry_initial_interval` (default = 5s): Time to wait after the first failure before retrying.
  - `retry_max_interval` (default = 30s): Is the upper bound on backoff.
  - `retry_max_elapsed_time` (default = 300s): Is the maximum amount of time spent trying to send a buffer.
- `logs`:
  - `export_resource_info_on_event` (default = false): Include resource info to DataSet Event while exporting Logs. This is especially useful when reducing DataSet billable log volume.
- `server_host`:
  - `server_host` (default = ''): Specifies the server host to be used for the events. By default, no specific value is set.
  - `use_host_name` (default = true): Determines whether the `hostname` of the node should be used as the server host for the events. When set to `true`, the node's `hostname` is automatically used.
- `retry_on_failure`: See [retry_on_failure](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
- `sending_queue`: See [sending_queue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
- `timeout`: See [timeout](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)

### Example

```yaml
processors:
  attributes:
    - key: serverHost
      action: insert
      from_attribute: container_id
  resource:
    attributes:
      - key: serverHost
        from_attribute: node_id
        action: insert      

exporters:
  dataset/logs:
    # DataSet API URL, https://app.eu.scalyr.com for DataSet EU instance
    dataset_url: https://app.scalyr.com
    # API Key
    api_key: your_api_key
    buffer:
      # Send buffer to the API at least every 5s
      max_lifetime: 5s
      # Group data based on these attributes
      group_by:
        - container_id
    server_host:
      # If these attribute serverHost is not specified or empty,
      # use the value from the env variable SERVER_HOST
      use_host: ${env:SERVER_HOST}
      # If it's not set, use the hostname value
      use_host_name: true

  dataset/traces:
    # DataSet API URL, https://app.eu.scalyr.com for DataSet EU instance
    dataset_url: https://app.scalyr.com
    # API Key
    api_key: your_api_key
    buffer:
      max_lifetime: 15s
      group_by:
        - resource_service.instance.id

service:
  pipelines:
    logs:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch, attributes]
      # add dataset among your exporters
      exporters: [dataset/logs]
    traces:
      receivers: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
      # add dataset among your exporters
      exporters: [dataset/traces]
```

## Examples

### Handling `serverHost` Attribute

Based on the given configuration and scenarios, here's the expected behavior:

1. Resource: `{'node_id:' 'node-pay-01'}`, Log: `{'container_id': 'cont-payment-01'}`, Env: `SERVER_HOST='payments-01'`, Hostname: `ip-172-31-27-19`
   * Since the attribute `container_id` is set, `attributesprocessor` will copy this value to the `serverHost`.
   * The resulting event will be: `{'container_id': 'cont-payment-01', 'serverHost': 'cont-payment-01'}`.
2. Resource: `{'node_id': 'node_pay_01'}`, Log: `{'attribute.foo': 'Bar'}`, Env: `SERVER_HOST='payments-01'`, Hostname: `ip-172-31-27-19`
    * Since the resource attribute `node_id` is set, `resourceprocessor` will copy this value to the `serverHost`. 
    * The resulting event will be: `{'serverHost': 'node-pay-01', 'attribute.foo': 'Bar'}`.
3. Resource: `{}`, Log: `{'attribute.foo': 'Bar'}`, Env: `SERVER_HOST='payments-01'`, Hostname: `ip-172-31-27-19`
   * Since the attribute `container_id` is not set, the value from the environmental variable `SERVER_HOST`  will be copied to the `serverHost`.
   * The resulting event will be: `{'serverHost': 'payments-01', 'attribute.foo': 'Bar'}`.
4. Resource: `{}`, Log: `{'attribute.foo': 'Bar'}`, Env: `SERVER_HOST=''`, Hostname: `ip-172-31-27-19`
   * Since the attribute `container_id` is not set and the environmental variable `SERVER_HOST` is empty, the `hostname` of the node (`ip-172-31-27-19`) will be used as the fallback value for `serverHost`. 
   * The resulting event will be: `{'serverHost': 'ip-172-31-27-19', 'attribute.foo': 'Bar'}`.
