exporter/signalfxexporter/README.md, before:

# SignalFx Metrics Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [aws], [observiq], [splunk] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fsignalfx%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fsignalfx) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fsignalfx%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fsignalfx) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax), [@crobert-1](https://www.github.com/crobert-1) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[aws]: https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-otel-collector
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This exporter can be used to send metrics, events, and trace correlation to SignalFx.

Apart from metrics, the exporter is also capable of sending metric metadata
(properties and tags) to SignalFx. Currently, only metric metadata updates from
the [k8s_cluster receiver](../../receiver/k8sclusterreceiver/README.md) are
supported.

## Metrics Configuration

The following configuration options are required:

- `access_token` (no default): The access token is the authentication token
  provided by SignalFx. The SignalFx access token can be obtained from the
  web app. For details on how to do so please refer the documentation [here](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/tokens.html#access-tokens).
- Either `realm` or both `api_url` and `ingest_url`. Both `api_url` and
  `ingest_url` take precedence over `realm`.
  - `realm` (no default): SignalFx realm where the data will be received.
  - `api_url` (no default): Destination to which SignalFx [properties and
    tags](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/metrics-metadata/metrics-metadata.html#metrics-metadata)
    are sent. If `realm` is set, this option is derived and will be
    `https://api.{realm}.signalfx.com`. If a value is explicitly set, the
    value of `realm` will not be used in determining `api_url`. The explicit
    value will be used instead.
  - `ingest_url` (no default): Destination where SignalFx metrics are sent. If
    `realm` is set, this option is derived and will be
    `https://ingest.{realm}.signalfx.com`. If a value is
    explicitly set, the value of `realm` will not be used in determining
    `ingest_url`. The explicit value will be used instead. The exporter will 
    automatically append the appropriate path: "/v2/datapoint" for metrics, 
    and "/v2/event" for events.

The following configuration options can also be configured:

- `access_token_passthrough`: (default = `true`) Whether to use
  `"com.splunk.signalfx.access_token"` metric resource attribute, if any, as the
  SignalFx access token.  In either case this attribute will be dropped during
  final translation, in this exporter only.  Intended to be used in tandem with
  identical configuration option for [SignalFx
  receiver](../../receiver/signalfxreceiver/README.md) to preserve datapoint
  origin for only this exporter, as others will reveal the organization access token
  by not filtering the attribute.
- `exclude_metrics`: List of metric filters that will determine metrics to be
  excluded from sending to Signalfx backend. The filtering is applied after the default 
  translations controlled by `disable_default_translation_rules` option.
  See [here](./testdata/config.yaml) for examples. Apart from the values explicitly
  provided via this option, by default, [these](./internal/translation/default_metrics.go) are
  also appended to this list. Setting this option to `[]` will override all the default
  excludes.
- `include_metrics`: List of filters to override exclusion of any metrics.
  This option can be used to included metrics that are otherwise dropped by
  default. See [here](./internal/translation/default_metrics.go) for a list of metrics
  that are dropped by default. For example, the following configuration can be
  used to send through some of that are dropped by default.
  ```yaml
  include_metrics:
    # When sending in translated metrics.
    - metric_names: [cpu.interrupt, cpu.user, cpu.system]
    # When sending in metrics in OTel convention.
    - metric_name: system.cpu.time
      dimensions:
        state: [interrupt, user, system]
  ```
- `log_data_points` (default = `false`): If the log level is set to `debug` 
  and this is true, all datapoints dispatched to Splunk Observability Cloud will be logged
- `log_dimension_updates` (default = `false`): Whether or not to log dimension
  updates.
- `disable_default_translation_rules` (default = `false`): Disable default translation
  of the OTel metrics to a SignalFx compatible format. The default translation rules are
  defined in `translation/constants.go`.
- `timeout` (default = 5s): Amount of time to wait for a send operation to
  complete.
- `headers` (no default): Headers to pass in the payload.
- `max_idle_conns` (default = 100): The maximum idle HTTP connections the client can keep open.
- `max_idle_conns_per_host` (default = 100): The maximum idle HTTP connections the client can keep open per host.
- `idle_conn_timeout` (default = 30s): The maximum amount of time an idle connection will remain open before closing itself.
- More HTTP settings are available, see 
  [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md).
- `sync_host_metadata`: Defines whether the exporter should scrape host metadata
  and send it as property updates to SignalFx backend. Disabled by default.
  IMPORTANT: Host metadata synchronization relies on `resourcedetection`
  processor. If this option is enabled make sure that `resourcedetection`
  processor is enabled in the pipeline with one of the cloud provider detectors
  or environment variable detector setting a unique value to `host.name` attribute
  within your k8s cluster. And keep `override=true` in resourcedetection config.
- `exclude_properties`: A list of property filters to limit dimension update content.
  Property filters can contain any number of the following fields, supporting (negated)
  string literals, re2 `/regex/`, and [glob](https://github.com/gobwas/glob) syntax values:
  `dimension_name`, `dimension_value`, `property_name`, and `property_value`. For any field
  not expressly configured for each filter object, a default catch-all value of `/^.*$/` is used
  to allow each specified field to require a match for the filter to take effect:
  ```yaml
  # will filter all 'k8s.workload.name' properties from 'k8s.pod.uid' dimension updates:
  exclude_properties:
    - dimension_name: k8s.pod.uid
      property_name: k8s.workload.name
  ```
- `dimension_client`: Contains options controlling the dimension update client configuration used for metadata updates.
  - `max_buffered:` (default = 10,000): The buffer size for queued dimension updates.
  - `send_delay` (default = 10s): The time to wait between dimension updates for a given dimension.
  - `max_idle_conns` (default = 20): The maximum idle HTTP connections the client can keep open.
  - `max_idle_conns_per_host` (default = 20): The maximum idle HTTP connections the client can keep open per host.
  - `max_conns_per_host` (default = 20): The maximum total number of connections the client can keep open per host.
  - `idle_conn_timeout` (default = 30s): The maximum amount of time an idle connection will remain open before closing itself.
- `nonalphanumeric_dimension_chars`: (default = `"_-."`) A string of characters 
that are allowed to be used as a dimension key in addition to alphanumeric 
characters. Each nonalphanumeric dimension key character that isn't in this string 
will be replaced with a `_`.
- `ingest_tls`: (no default) exposes a list of TLS settings to establish a secure connection with signafx receiver configured on another collector instance.
  - `ca_file` needs to be set if the exporter's `ingest_url` is pointing to a signalfx receiver
  with TLS enabled and using a self-signed certificate where its CA is not loaded in the system cert pool.
  Full list of TLS options can be found in the configtls [README](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/configtls#client-configuration) 
  The following example instructs the signalfx exporter ingest client to use a custom `ca_file` to verify the server certificate.
  ```yaml
  ingest_tls:
      ca_file: "/etc/opt/certs/ca.pem"
  ```
- `api_tls`: (no default) exposes a list of TLS settings to establish a secure connection with http_forwarder extension configured on another collector instance.
  - `ca_file` needs to be set if the exporter's `api_url` is pointing to a http_forwarder extension
  with TLS enabled and using a self-signed certificate where its CA is not loaded in the system cert pool.
  Full list of TLS options can be found in the configtls [README](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/configtls#client-configuration)
  The following example instructs the signalfx exporter api client to use a custom `ca_file` to verify the server certificate.
  ```yaml
  api_tls:
      ca_file: "/etc/opt/certs/ca.pem"
  ```

In addition, this exporter offers queued retry which is enabled by default.
Information about queued retry configuration parameters can be found
[here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md).

## Traces Configuration (correlation only)

:warning: _Note that traces must still be sent in using [sapmexporter](../sapmexporter) to see them in SignalFx._

When traces are sent to the signalfx exporter it correlates traces to metrics. When a new service or environment is
seen it associates the source (e.g. host or pod) to that service or environment in SignalFx. Metrics can then be
filtered based on that trace service and environment (`sf_service` and `sf_environment`).

One of `realm` and `api_url` are required.

- `access_token` (required, no default): The access token is the authentication token
  provided by SignalFx.
- `realm` (no default): SignalFx realm where the data will be received.
- `api_url` (default = `https://api.{realm}.signalfx.com/`): Destination to which correlation updates
   are sent. If a value is explicitly set, the value of `realm` will not be used in determining `api_url`.
   The explicit value will be used instead.
- `correlation` Contains options controlling the syncing of service and environment properties onto dimensions.
  - `endpoint` (required, default = `api_url` or `https://api.{realm}.signalfx.com/`): This is the base URL for API requests (e.g. `https://api.us0.signalfx.com`).
  - `timeout` (default = 5s): Is the timeout for every attempt to send data to the backend.
  - `stale_service_timeout` (default = 5 minutes): How long to wait after a span's service name is last seen before uncorrelating it.
  - `max_requests` (default = 20): Max HTTP requests to be made in parallel.
  - `max_buffered` (default = 10,000): Max number of correlation updates that can be buffered before updates are dropped.
  - `max_retries` (default = 2): Max number of retries that will be made for failed correlation updates.
  - `log_updates` (default = false): Whether or not to log correlation updates to dimensions (at `DEBUG` level).
  - `retry_delay` (default = 30 seconds): How long to wait between retries.
  - `cleanup_interval` (default = 1 minute): How frequently to purge duplicate requests.
  - `sync_attributes` (default = `{"k8s.pod.uid": "k8s.pod.uid", "container.id": "container.id"}`) Map containing key of the attribute to read from spans to sync to dimensions specified as the value.

## Default Metric Filters
[List of metrics excluded by default](./internal/translation/default_metrics.go)

Some OpenTelemetry receivers may send metrics that SignalFx considers to be categorized as custom metrics. In order to prevent unwanted overage usage due to custom metrics from these receivers, the SignalFx exporter has a [set of metrics excluded by default](./internal/translation/default_metrics.go). Some exclusion rules use regex to exclude multiple metric names. Some metrics are only excluded if specific resource labels (dimensions) are present. If `translation_rules` are configured and new metrics match a default exclusion, the new metric will still be excluded. Users may configure the SignalFx exporter's `include_metrics` config option to override the any of the default exclusions, as `include_metrics` will always take precedence over any exclusions. An example of `include_metrics` is shown below.

```
exporters:
  signalfx:
    include_metrics:
      - metric_names: [cpu.interrupt, cpu.user, cpu.system]
      - metric_name: system.cpu.time
        dimensions:
          state: [interrupt, user, system]
```

The following `include_metrics` example would instruct the exporter to send only `cpu.interrupt` metrics with a `cpu` dimension value ("per core" datapoints), and both "per core" and aggregate `cpu.idle` metrics:

```
exporters:
  signalfx:
    include_metrics:
      - metric_name: "cpu.idle"
      - metric_name: "cpu.interrupt"
        dimensions:
          cpu: ["*"]
```

## Translation Rules and Metric Transformations

The `translation_rules` metrics configuration field accepts a list of metric-transforming actions to
help ensure compatibility with custom charts and dashboards when using the OpenTelemetry Collector. It also provides the ability to produce custom metrics by copying, calculating new, or aggregating other metric values without requiring an additional processor.
The rule language is expressed in yaml mappings and is [documented here](./internal/translation/translator.go).  Translation rules currently allow the following actions:

* `aggregate_metric` - Aggregates a metric through removal of specified dimensions
* `calculate_new_metric` - Creates a new metric via operating on two consistuent ones
* `convert_values` - Convert float values to int or int to float for specified metric names
* `copy_metrics` - Creates a new metric as a copy of another
* `delta_metric` - Creates a new delta metric for a specified non-delta one
* `divide_int` - Scales a metric's integer value by a given factor
* `drop_dimensions` - Drops dimensions for specified metrics, or globally
* `drop_metrics` - Drops all metrics with a given name
* `multiply_float` - Scales a metric's float value by a given float factor
* `multiply_int` - Scales a metric's int value by a given int factor
* `rename_dimension_keys` - Renames dimensions for specified metrics, or globally
* `rename_metrics` - Replaces a given metric name with specified one
* `split_metric` - Splits a given metric into multiple new ones for a specified dimension

The translation rules defined in [`translation/constants.go`](./internal/translation/constants.go) are used by default for this value.  The default rules will create the following aggregated metrics from the [`hostmetrics` receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/hostmetricsreceiver/README.md):

* cpu.idle
* cpu.interrupt
* cpu.nice
* cpu.num_processors
* cpu.softirq
* cpu.steal
* cpu.system
* cpu.user
* cpu.utilization
* cpu.utilization_per_core
* cpu.wait
* disk.summary_utilization
* disk.utilization
* disk_ops.pending
* disk_ops.total
* memory.total
* memory.utilization
* network.total
* process.cpu_time_seconds
* system.disk.io.total
* system.disk.operations.total
* system.network.io.total
* system.network.packets.total
* vmpage_io.memory.in
* vmpage_io.memory.out
* vmpage_io.swap.in
* vmpage_io.swap.out

In addition to the aggregated metrics, the default translation rules make available the following "per core" custom hostmetrics.
The CPU number is assigned to the dimension `cpu` 

* cpu.interrupt
* cpu.nice
* cpu.softirq
* cpu.steal
* cpu.system
* cpu.user
* cpu.wait

These metrics are intended to be reported directly to Splunk IM by the SignalFx exporter.  Any desired changes to their attributes or values should be made via additional translation rules or from their constituent host metrics.

## Example Config

```yaml
exporters:
  signalfx:
    access_token: <replace_with_actual_access_token>
    access_token_passthrough: true
    headers:
      added-entry: "added value"
      dot.test: test
    realm: us1
    timeout: 5s
    max_idle_conns: 80
```

> :warning: When enabling the SignalFx receiver or exporter, configure both the `metrics` and `logs` pipelines.

```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [signalfx]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
      exporters: [signalfx]
    logs:
      receivers: [signalfx]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
      exporters: [signalfx]
    traces:
      receivers: [zipkin]
      processors: []
      exporters: [signalfx]
```

The full list of settings exposed for this exporter are documented [here](config.go)
with detailed sample configurations [here](testdata/config.yaml).

This exporter also offers proxy support as documented
[here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter#proxy-support).

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Queuing, retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)

Commit message:

added a way to drop histogram bucket in  singalfx exporter

exporter/signalfxexporter/README.md, after:

# SignalFx Metrics Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [aws], [observiq], [splunk] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fsignalfx%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fsignalfx) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fsignalfx%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fsignalfx) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax), [@crobert-1](https://www.github.com/crobert-1) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[aws]: https://github.com/aws-observability/aws-otel-collector
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This exporter can be used to send metrics, events, and trace correlation to SignalFx.

Apart from metrics, the exporter is also capable of sending metric metadata
(properties and tags) to SignalFx. Currently, only metric metadata updates from
the [k8s_cluster receiver](../../receiver/k8sclusterreceiver/README.md) are
supported.

## Metrics Configuration

The following configuration options are required:

- `access_token` (no default): The access token is the authentication token
  provided by SignalFx. The SignalFx access token can be obtained from the
  web app. For details on how to do so please refer the documentation [here](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/tokens.html#access-tokens).
- Either `realm` or both `api_url` and `ingest_url`. Both `api_url` and
  `ingest_url` take precedence over `realm`.
  - `realm` (no default): SignalFx realm where the data will be received.
  - `api_url` (no default): Destination to which SignalFx [properties and
    tags](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/metrics-metadata/metrics-metadata.html#metrics-metadata)
    are sent. If `realm` is set, this option is derived and will be
    `https://api.{realm}.signalfx.com`. If a value is explicitly set, the
    value of `realm` will not be used in determining `api_url`. The explicit
    value will be used instead.
  - `ingest_url` (no default): Destination where SignalFx metrics are sent. If
    `realm` is set, this option is derived and will be
    `https://ingest.{realm}.signalfx.com`. If a value is
    explicitly set, the value of `realm` will not be used in determining
    `ingest_url`. The explicit value will be used instead. The exporter will 
    automatically append the appropriate path: "/v2/datapoint" for metrics, 
    and "/v2/event" for events.

The following configuration options can also be configured:

- `access_token_passthrough`: (default = `true`) Whether to use
  `"com.splunk.signalfx.access_token"` metric resource attribute, if any, as the
  SignalFx access token.  In either case this attribute will be dropped during
  final translation, in this exporter only.  Intended to be used in tandem with
  identical configuration option for [SignalFx
  receiver](../../receiver/signalfxreceiver/README.md) to preserve datapoint
  origin for only this exporter, as others will reveal the organization access token
  by not filtering the attribute.
- `exclude_metrics`: List of metric filters that will determine metrics to be
  excluded from sending to Signalfx backend. The filtering is applied after the default 
  translations controlled by `disable_default_translation_rules` option.
  See [here](./testdata/config.yaml) for examples. Apart from the values explicitly
  provided via this option, by default, [these](./internal/translation/default_metrics.go) are
  also appended to this list. Setting this option to `[]` will override all the default
  excludes.
- `include_metrics`: List of filters to override exclusion of any metrics.
  This option can be used to included metrics that are otherwise dropped by
  default. See [here](./internal/translation/default_metrics.go) for a list of metrics
  that are dropped by default. For example, the following configuration can be
  used to send through some of that are dropped by default.
  ```yaml
  include_metrics:
    # When sending in translated metrics.
    - metric_names: [cpu.interrupt, cpu.user, cpu.system]
    # When sending in metrics in OTel convention.
    - metric_name: system.cpu.time
      dimensions:
        state: [interrupt, user, system]
  ```
- `log_data_points` (default = `false`): If the log level is set to `debug` 
  and this is true, all datapoints dispatched to Splunk Observability Cloud will be logged
- `log_dimension_updates` (default = `false`): Whether or not to log dimension
  updates.
- `disable_default_translation_rules` (default = `false`): Disable default translation
  of the OTel metrics to a SignalFx compatible format. The default translation rules are
  defined in `translation/constants.go`.
- `timeout` (default = 5s): Amount of time to wait for a send operation to
  complete.
- `headers` (no default): Headers to pass in the payload.
- `max_idle_conns` (default = 100): The maximum idle HTTP connections the client can keep open.
- `max_idle_conns_per_host` (default = 100): The maximum idle HTTP connections the client can keep open per host.
- `idle_conn_timeout` (default = 30s): The maximum amount of time an idle connection will remain open before closing itself.
- More HTTP settings are available, see 
  [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md).
- `sync_host_metadata`: Defines whether the exporter should scrape host metadata
  and send it as property updates to SignalFx backend. Disabled by default.
  IMPORTANT: Host metadata synchronization relies on `resourcedetection`
  processor. If this option is enabled make sure that `resourcedetection`
  processor is enabled in the pipeline with one of the cloud provider detectors
  or environment variable detector setting a unique value to `host.name` attribute
  within your k8s cluster. And keep `override=true` in resourcedetection config.
- `exclude_properties`: A list of property filters to limit dimension update content.
  Property filters can contain any number of the following fields, supporting (negated)
  string literals, re2 `/regex/`, and [glob](https://github.com/gobwas/glob) syntax values:
  `dimension_name`, `dimension_value`, `property_name`, and `property_value`. For any field
  not expressly configured for each filter object, a default catch-all value of `/^.*$/` is used
  to allow each specified field to require a match for the filter to take effect:
  ```yaml
  # will filter all 'k8s.workload.name' properties from 'k8s.pod.uid' dimension updates:
  exclude_properties:
    - dimension_name: k8s.pod.uid
      property_name: k8s.workload.name
  ```
- `dimension_client`: Contains options controlling the dimension update client configuration used for metadata updates.
  - `max_buffered:` (default = 10,000): The buffer size for queued dimension updates.
  - `send_delay` (default = 10s): The time to wait between dimension updates for a given dimension.
  - `max_idle_conns` (default = 20): The maximum idle HTTP connections the client can keep open.
  - `max_idle_conns_per_host` (default = 20): The maximum idle HTTP connections the client can keep open per host.
  - `max_conns_per_host` (default = 20): The maximum total number of connections the client can keep open per host.
  - `idle_conn_timeout` (default = 30s): The maximum amount of time an idle connection will remain open before closing itself.
- `nonalphanumeric_dimension_chars`: (default = `"_-."`) A string of characters 
that are allowed to be used as a dimension key in addition to alphanumeric 
characters. Each nonalphanumeric dimension key character that isn't in this string 
will be replaced with a `_`.
- `ingest_tls`: (no default) exposes a list of TLS settings to establish a secure connection with signafx receiver configured on another collector instance.
  - `ca_file` needs to be set if the exporter's `ingest_url` is pointing to a signalfx receiver
  with TLS enabled and using a self-signed certificate where its CA is not loaded in the system cert pool.
  Full list of TLS options can be found in the configtls [README](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/configtls#client-configuration) 
  The following example instructs the signalfx exporter ingest client to use a custom `ca_file` to verify the server certificate.
  ```yaml
  ingest_tls:
      ca_file: "/etc/opt/certs/ca.pem"
  ```
- `api_tls`: (no default) exposes a list of TLS settings to establish a secure connection with http_forwarder extension configured on another collector instance.
  - `ca_file` needs to be set if the exporter's `api_url` is pointing to a http_forwarder extension
  with TLS enabled and using a self-signed certificate where its CA is not loaded in the system cert pool.
  Full list of TLS options can be found in the configtls [README](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/config/configtls#client-configuration)
  The following example instructs the signalfx exporter api client to use a custom `ca_file` to verify the server certificate.
  ```yaml
  api_tls:
      ca_file: "/etc/opt/certs/ca.pem"
  ```
- `drop_histogram_buckets`:  (default = `false`) if set to true, histogram buckets will not be translated into datapoints with `_bucket` suffix but will be dropped instead, only datapoints with `_sum`, `_count`, `_min` (optional) and `_max` (optional) suffixes will be sent.
In addition, this exporter offers queued retry which is enabled by default.
Information about queued retry configuration parameters can be found
[here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md).

## Traces Configuration (correlation only)

:warning: _Note that traces must still be sent in using [sapmexporter](../sapmexporter) to see them in SignalFx._

When traces are sent to the signalfx exporter it correlates traces to metrics. When a new service or environment is
seen it associates the source (e.g. host or pod) to that service or environment in SignalFx. Metrics can then be
filtered based on that trace service and environment (`sf_service` and `sf_environment`).

One of `realm` and `api_url` are required.

- `access_token` (required, no default): The access token is the authentication token
  provided by SignalFx.
- `realm` (no default): SignalFx realm where the data will be received.
- `api_url` (default = `https://api.{realm}.signalfx.com/`): Destination to which correlation updates
   are sent. If a value is explicitly set, the value of `realm` will not be used in determining `api_url`.
   The explicit value will be used instead.
- `correlation` Contains options controlling the syncing of service and environment properties onto dimensions.
  - `endpoint` (required, default = `api_url` or `https://api.{realm}.signalfx.com/`): This is the base URL for API requests (e.g. `https://api.us0.signalfx.com`).
  - `timeout` (default = 5s): Is the timeout for every attempt to send data to the backend.
  - `stale_service_timeout` (default = 5 minutes): How long to wait after a span's service name is last seen before uncorrelating it.
  - `max_requests` (default = 20): Max HTTP requests to be made in parallel.
  - `max_buffered` (default = 10,000): Max number of correlation updates that can be buffered before updates are dropped.
  - `max_retries` (default = 2): Max number of retries that will be made for failed correlation updates.
  - `log_updates` (default = false): Whether or not to log correlation updates to dimensions (at `DEBUG` level).
  - `retry_delay` (default = 30 seconds): How long to wait between retries.
  - `cleanup_interval` (default = 1 minute): How frequently to purge duplicate requests.
  - `sync_attributes` (default = `{"k8s.pod.uid": "k8s.pod.uid", "container.id": "container.id"}`) Map containing key of the attribute to read from spans to sync to dimensions specified as the value.

## Default Metric Filters
[List of metrics excluded by default](./internal/translation/default_metrics.go)

Some OpenTelemetry receivers may send metrics that SignalFx considers to be categorized as custom metrics. In order to prevent unwanted overage usage due to custom metrics from these receivers, the SignalFx exporter has a [set of metrics excluded by default](./internal/translation/default_metrics.go). Some exclusion rules use regex to exclude multiple metric names. Some metrics are only excluded if specific resource labels (dimensions) are present. If `translation_rules` are configured and new metrics match a default exclusion, the new metric will still be excluded. Users may configure the SignalFx exporter's `include_metrics` config option to override the any of the default exclusions, as `include_metrics` will always take precedence over any exclusions. An example of `include_metrics` is shown below.

```
exporters:
  signalfx:
    include_metrics:
      - metric_names: [cpu.interrupt, cpu.user, cpu.system]
      - metric_name: system.cpu.time
        dimensions:
          state: [interrupt, user, system]
```

The following `include_metrics` example would instruct the exporter to send only `cpu.interrupt` metrics with a `cpu` dimension value ("per core" datapoints), and both "per core" and aggregate `cpu.idle` metrics:

```
exporters:
  signalfx:
    include_metrics:
      - metric_name: "cpu.idle"
      - metric_name: "cpu.interrupt"
        dimensions:
          cpu: ["*"]
```

## Translation Rules and Metric Transformations

The `translation_rules` metrics configuration field accepts a list of metric-transforming actions to
help ensure compatibility with custom charts and dashboards when using the OpenTelemetry Collector. It also provides the ability to produce custom metrics by copying, calculating new, or aggregating other metric values without requiring an additional processor.
The rule language is expressed in yaml mappings and is [documented here](./internal/translation/translator.go).  Translation rules currently allow the following actions:

* `aggregate_metric` - Aggregates a metric through removal of specified dimensions
* `calculate_new_metric` - Creates a new metric via operating on two consistuent ones
* `convert_values` - Convert float values to int or int to float for specified metric names
* `copy_metrics` - Creates a new metric as a copy of another
* `delta_metric` - Creates a new delta metric for a specified non-delta one
* `divide_int` - Scales a metric's integer value by a given factor
* `drop_dimensions` - Drops dimensions for specified metrics, or globally
* `drop_metrics` - Drops all metrics with a given name
* `multiply_float` - Scales a metric's float value by a given float factor
* `multiply_int` - Scales a metric's int value by a given int factor
* `rename_dimension_keys` - Renames dimensions for specified metrics, or globally
* `rename_metrics` - Replaces a given metric name with specified one
* `split_metric` - Splits a given metric into multiple new ones for a specified dimension

The translation rules defined in [`translation/constants.go`](./internal/translation/constants.go) are used by default for this value.  The default rules will create the following aggregated metrics from the [`hostmetrics` receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/hostmetricsreceiver/README.md):

* cpu.idle
* cpu.interrupt
* cpu.nice
* cpu.num_processors
* cpu.softirq
* cpu.steal
* cpu.system
* cpu.user
* cpu.utilization
* cpu.utilization_per_core
* cpu.wait
* disk.summary_utilization
* disk.utilization
* disk_ops.pending
* disk_ops.total
* memory.total
* memory.utilization
* network.total
* process.cpu_time_seconds
* system.disk.io.total
* system.disk.operations.total
* system.network.io.total
* system.network.packets.total
* vmpage_io.memory.in
* vmpage_io.memory.out
* vmpage_io.swap.in
* vmpage_io.swap.out

In addition to the aggregated metrics, the default translation rules make available the following "per core" custom hostmetrics.
The CPU number is assigned to the dimension `cpu` 

* cpu.interrupt
* cpu.nice
* cpu.softirq
* cpu.steal
* cpu.system
* cpu.user
* cpu.wait

These metrics are intended to be reported directly to Splunk IM by the SignalFx exporter.  Any desired changes to their attributes or values should be made via additional translation rules or from their constituent host metrics.

## Example Config

```yaml
exporters:
  signalfx:
    access_token: <replace_with_actual_access_token>
    access_token_passthrough: true
    headers:
      added-entry: "added value"
      dot.test: test
    realm: us1
    timeout: 5s
    max_idle_conns: 80
```

> :warning: When enabling the SignalFx receiver or exporter, configure both the `metrics` and `logs` pipelines.

```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [signalfx]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
      exporters: [signalfx]
    logs:
      receivers: [signalfx]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
      exporters: [signalfx]
    traces:
      receivers: [zipkin]
      processors: []
      exporters: [signalfx]
```

The full list of settings exposed for this exporter are documented [here](config.go)
with detailed sample configurations [here](testdata/config.yaml).

This exporter also offers proxy support as documented
[here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter#proxy-support).

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Queuing, retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
