connector/exceptionsconnector/README.md, before:

# Exceptions Connector

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Distributions | [contrib] |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib

## Supported Pipeline Types

| [Exporter Pipeline Type] | [Receiver Pipeline Type] | [Stability Level] |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------ | ----------------- |
| traces | metrics | [alpha] |
| traces | logs | [alpha] |

[Exporter Pipeline Type]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md#exporter-pipeline-type
[Receiver Pipeline Type]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md#receiver-pipeline-type
[Stability Level]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#stability-levels
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Overview

Each metric will have _at least_ the following dimensions because they are common across all spans:
- Service name
- Span kind
- Status code
- Exception message
- Exception type

## Configurations

If you are not already familiar with connectors, you may find it helpful to first visit the [Connectors README].

The following settings can be optionally configured:
- `dimensions`: the list of dimensions to add together with the default dimensions defined above.
  
  Each additional dimension is defined with a `name` which is looked up in the span's collection of attributes or resource attributes.

## Examples

The following is a simple example usage of the `exceptions` connector.

For configuration examples on other use cases, please refer to [More Examples](#more-examples).

The full list of settings exposed for this connector are documented [here](../../connector/exceptionsconnector/config.go).


```yaml
receivers:
  nop:

exporters:
  nop:

connectors:
  exceptions:

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [nop]
      exporters: [exceptions]
    metrics:
      receivers: [exceptions]
      exporters: [nop]
    logs:
      receivers: [exceptions]
      exporters: [nop]      
```

### More Examples

For more example configuration covering various other use cases, please visit the [testdata directory](../../connector/exceptionsconnector/testdata).

[Connectors README]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md

Commit message:

include more batch of attrs in logs

connector/exceptionsconnector/README.md, after:

# Exceptions Connector

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Distributions | [contrib] |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib

## Supported Pipeline Types

| [Exporter Pipeline Type] | [Receiver Pipeline Type] | [Stability Level] |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------ | ----------------- |
| traces | metrics | [alpha] |
| traces | logs | [alpha] |

[Exporter Pipeline Type]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md#exporter-pipeline-type
[Receiver Pipeline Type]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md#receiver-pipeline-type
[Stability Level]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#stability-levels
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Overview

Generate metrics and logs from record [application exceptions](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/exceptions/exceptions-spans.md/) associated with spans.

Each **metric** and **log** will have _at least_ the following dimensions:
- Service name
- Span kind
- Status code

With the provided default config, each **metric** and **log** will also have the following dimensions:
- Exception message
- Exception type

Each log will additionally have the following attributes:
- Exception stacktrace
- HTTP attributes (if available), such as `http.method` and `http.url`.

## Configurations

If you are not already familiar with connectors, you may find it helpful to first visit the [Connectors README].

The following settings can be optionally configured:
- `dimensions`: the list of dimensions to add together with the default dimensions defined above.
  
  Each additional dimension is defined with a `name` which is looked up in the span's collection of attributes or resource attributes.

  The provided default config includes `exception.type` and `exception.message` as additional dimensions.

## Examples

The following is a simple example usage of the `exceptions` connector.

For configuration examples on other use cases, please refer to [More Examples](#more-examples).

The full list of settings exposed for this connector are documented [here](../../connector/exceptionsconnector/config.go).


```yaml
receivers:
  nop:

exporters:
  nop:

connectors:
  exceptions:

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [nop]
      exporters: [exceptions]
    metrics:
      receivers: [exceptions]
      exporters: [nop]
    logs:
      receivers: [exceptions]
      exporters: [nop]      
```

### More Examples

For more example configuration covering various other use cases, please visit the [testdata directory](../../connector/exceptionsconnector/testdata).

[Connectors README]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md
