receiver/receivercreator/README.md, before:

# Receiver Creator

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs, traces   |
|               | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [splunk], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Freceivercreator%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Freceivercreator) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Freceivercreator%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Freceivercreator) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@rmfitzpatrick](https://www.github.com/rmfitzpatrick) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver can instantiate other receivers at runtime based on whether
observed endpoints match a configured rule. To use the receiver creator, you
must first configure one or more
[observers](../../extension/observer/README.md) that will discover networked
endpoints that you may be interested in. The configured rules will be
evaluated for each endpoint discovered. If the rule evaluates to true then
the receiver for that rule will be started against the matched endpoint.

If you use the receiver creator in multiple pipelines of differing telemetry types,
but a given dynamically instantiated receiver doesn't support one of the pipeline's type,
it will effectively lead to a logged no-op that won't cause a collector service failure.

## Configuration

**watch_observers**

A list of observers previously defined to be run in the `extensions` section.
receiver_creator will watch for endpoints generated by these observers.

**receivers**

A map of receiver names (e.g. `redis/1`) to a template for when and how to
instantiate that receiver.

**receivers.&lt;receiver_type/id&gt;.rule**

Rule expression using [expvar
syntax](https://github.com/antonmedv/expr/blob/master/docs/Language-Definition.md).
Variables available are detailed below in [Rule
Expressions](#rule-expressions).

**receivers.&lt;receiver_type/id&gt;.config**

This is configuration that will be used when creating the receiver at
runtime.

This option can use static and dynamic configuration values. Static values
are normal YAML values. However, the value can also be dynamically constructed
from the discovered endpoint object. Dynamic values are surrounded by
backticks (\`). If a literal backtick is needed use \\` to escape it. Dynamic
values can be used with static values in which case they are concatenated.
For example:

```yaml
config:
   secure_url: https://`pod.labels["secure_host"]`
```

The value of `secure_url` will be `https://` concatenated with the value of
the `secure_host` label.

This can also be used when the discovered endpoint needs to be changed
dynamically. For instance, suppose the IP `1.2.3.4` is discovered without a
port but the port needs to be set inside endpoint. You could do:

```yaml
config:
   endpoint: '`endpoint`:8080'
```

If your target receiver provides an `endpoint` config field and you aren't
manually setting it like the above example, the observer endpoint target value
will automatically be sourced. If no `endpoint` field is available you are
required to specify any necessary fields.

**receivers.resource_attributes**

```yaml
resource_attributes:
  <endpoint type>:
    <attribute>: <attribute value>
```

This setting controls what resource attributes are set on telemetry emitted from the created receiver. These attributes can be set from [values in the endpoint](#rule-expressions) that was matched by the `rule`. These attributes vary based on the endpoint type. These defaults can be disabled by setting the attribute to be removed to an empty value. Note that the values can be dynamic and processed the same as in `config`.

Note that the backticks below are not typos--they indicate the value is set dynamically.

`type == "pod"`

| Resource Attribute | Default       |
|--------------------|---------------|
| k8s.pod.name       | \`name\`      |
| k8s.pod.uid        | \`uid\`       |
| k8s.namespace.name | \`namespace\` |

`type == "port"`

| Resource Attribute | Default           |
|--------------------|-------------------|
| k8s.pod.name       | \`pod.name\`      |
| k8s.pod.uid        | \`pod.uid\`       |
| k8s.namespace.name | \`pod.namespace\` |

`type == "container"`

| Resource Attribute   | Default           |
|----------------------|-------------------|
| container.name       | \`name\`          |
| container.image.name | \`image\`         |

`type == "hostport"`

None

`type == "k8s.node"`

| Resource Attribute | Default           |
|--------------------|-------------------|
| k8s.node.name      | \`name\`          |
| k8s.node.uid       | \`uid\`           |

See `redis/2` in [examples](#examples).


**receivers.&lt;receiver_type/id&gt;.resource_attributes**

```yaml
receivers:
  <receiver_type>:
    resource_attributes:
      <attribute>: <attribute string value>
```

Similar to the per-endpoint type `resource_attributes` described above but for individual receiver instances. Duplicate attribute entries (including the empty string) in this receiver-specific mapping take precedence. These attribute values also support expansion from endpoint environment content. At this time their values must be strings.

## Rule Expressions

Each rule must start with `type == ("pod"|"port"|"hostport"|"container"|"k8s.node") &&` such that the rule matches
only one endpoint type. Depending on the type of endpoint the rule is
targeting it will have different variables available.

### Pod

| Variable    | Description                       |
|-------------|-----------------------------------|
| type        | `"pod"`                           |
| id          | ID of source endpoint             |
| name        | name of the pod                   |
| namespace   | namespace of the pod              |
| uid         | unique id of the pod              |
| labels      | map of labels set on the pod      |
| annotations | map of annotations set on the pod |

### Port

| Variable        | Description                             |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------|
| type            | `"port"`                                |
| id              | ID of source endpoint                   |
| name            | container port name                     |
| port            | port number                             |
| protocol        | The transport protocol ("TCP" or "UDP") |
| pod.name        | name of the owning pod                  |
| pod.namespace   | namespace of the pod                    |
| pod.uid         | unique id of the pod                    |
| pod.labels      | map of labels of the owning pod         |
| pod.annotations | map of annotations of the owning pod    |

### Host Port

| Variable      | Description                                      |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| type          | `"hostport"`                                     |
| id            | ID of source endpoint                            |
| process_name  | Name of the process                              |
| command       | Command line with the used to invoke the process |
| is_ipv6       | true if endpoint is IPv6, otherwise false        |
| port          | Port number                                      |
| transport     | The transport protocol ("TCP" or "UDP")          |

### Container

| Variable       | Description                                                       |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| type           | `"container"`                                                     |
| id             | ID of source endpoint                                             |
| name           | Primary name of the container                                     |
| image          | Name of the container image                                       |
| port           | Exposed port of the container                                     |
| alternate_port | Exposed port accessed through redirection, such as a mapped port  |
| command        | The command used to invoke the process of the container           |
| container_id   | ID of the container                                               |
| host           | Hostname or IP of the underlying host the container is running on |
| transport      | Transport protocol used by the endpoint (TCP or UDP)              |
| labels         | User-specified metadata labels on the container                   |

### Kubernetes Node

| Variable       | Description                                                       |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| type                  | `"k8s.node"`                                                                                                           |
| id                    | ID of source endpoint                                                                                                  |
| name                  | The name of the Kubernetes node                                                                                        |
| uid                   | The unique ID for the node                                                                                             |
| hostname              | The node's hostname as reported by its Status object                                                                   |
| external_ip           | The node's external IP address as reported by its Status object                                                        |
| internal_ip           | The node's internal IP address as reported by its Status object                                                        |
| external_dns          | The node's external DNS record as reported by its Status object                                                        |
| internal_dns          | The node's internal DNS record as reported by its Status object                                                        |
| annotations           | A key-value map of non-identifying, user-specified node metadata                                                       |
| labels                | A key-value map of user-specified node metadata                                                                        |
| kubelet_endpoint_port | The node Status object's DaemonEndpoints.KubeletEndpoint.Port value                                                    |

## Examples

```yaml
extensions:
  # Configures the Kubernetes observer to watch for pod start and stop events.
  k8s_observer:
  host_observer:

receivers:
  receiver_creator/1:
    # Name of the extensions to watch for endpoints to start and stop.
    watch_observers: [k8s_observer]
    receivers:
      prometheus_simple:
        # Configure prometheus scraping if standard prometheus annotations are set on the pod.
        rule: type == "pod" && annotations["prometheus.io/scrape"] == "true"
        config:
          metrics_path: '`"prometheus.io/path" in annotations ? annotations["prometheus.io/path"] : "/metrics"`'
          endpoint: '`endpoint`:`"prometheus.io/port" in annotations ? annotations["prometheus.io/port"] : 9090`'
        resource_attributes:
          an.attribute: a.value
          # Dynamic configuration values
          app.version: '`labels["app_version"]`'

      redis/1:
        # If this rule matches an instance of this receiver will be started.
        rule: type == "port" && port == 6379
        config:
          # Static receiver-specific config.
          password: secret
          # Dynamic configuration value.
          collection_interval: '`pod.annotations["collection_interval"]`'

      redis/2:
        # Set a resource attribute based on endpoint value.
        rule: type == "port" && port == 6379

    resource_attributes:
      # Dynamic configuration values, overwriting default attributes`
      pod:
        service.name: '`labels["service_name"]`'
        app: '`labels["app"]`'
      port:
        service.name: '`pod.labels["service_name"]`'
        app: '`pod.labels["app"]`'
  receiver_creator/2:
    # Name of the extensions to watch for endpoints to start and stop.
    watch_observers: [host_observer]
    receivers:
      redis/on_host:
        # If this rule matches an instance of this receiver will be started.
        rule: type == "port" && port == 6379 && is_ipv6 == true
        resource_attributes:
          service.name: redis_on_host
  receiver_creator/3:
    watch_observers: [k8s_observer]
    receivers:
      kubeletstats:
        rule: type == "k8s.node"
        config:
          auth_type: serviceAccount
          collection_interval: 10s
          endpoint: '`endpoint`:`kubelet_endpoint_port`'
          extra_metadata_labels:
            - container.id
          metric_groups:
            - container
            - pod
            - node

processors:
  exampleprocessor:

exporters:
  exampleexporter:

service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [receiver_creator/1, receiver_creator/2, receiver_creator/3]
      processors: [exampleprocessor]
      exporters: [exampleexporter]
  extensions: [k8s_observer, host_observer]
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented [here](./config.go)
with detailed sample configurations [here](./testdata/config.yaml).

Commit message:

receiver_creator: update expr with breaking type fn (#26064)
Fixing a bug - These changes adopt the latest version of expr and
incorporate a breaking built-in `type` function addition by relocating
its implementation to `typeOf`.

Fixes #26038

receiver/receivercreator/README.md, after:

# Receiver Creator

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs, traces   |
|               | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [splunk], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Freceivercreator%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Freceivercreator) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Freceivercreator%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Freceivercreator) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@rmfitzpatrick](https://www.github.com/rmfitzpatrick) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver can instantiate other receivers at runtime based on whether
observed endpoints match a configured rule. To use the receiver creator, you
must first configure one or more
[observers](../../extension/observer/README.md) that will discover networked
endpoints that you may be interested in. The configured rules will be
evaluated for each endpoint discovered. If the rule evaluates to true then
the receiver for that rule will be started against the matched endpoint.

If you use the receiver creator in multiple pipelines of differing telemetry types,
but a given dynamically instantiated receiver doesn't support one of the pipeline's type,
it will effectively lead to a logged no-op that won't cause a collector service failure.

## Configuration

**watch_observers**

A list of observers previously defined to be run in the `extensions` section.
receiver_creator will watch for endpoints generated by these observers.

**receivers**

A map of receiver names (e.g. `redis/1`) to a template for when and how to
instantiate that receiver.

**receivers.&lt;receiver_type/id&gt;.rule**

Rule expression using [expvar
syntax](https://github.com/antonmedv/expr/blob/master/docs/Language-Definition.md).
Variables available are detailed below in [Rule
Expressions](#rule-expressions).

Note: The built-in `type` function introduced in v1.14.1 has been relocated to `typeOf`.

**receivers.&lt;receiver_type/id&gt;.config**

This is configuration that will be used when creating the receiver at
runtime.

This option can use static and dynamic configuration values. Static values
are normal YAML values. However, the value can also be dynamically constructed
from the discovered endpoint object. Dynamic values are surrounded by
backticks (\`). If a literal backtick is needed use \\` to escape it. Dynamic
values can be used with static values in which case they are concatenated.
For example:

```yaml
config:
   secure_url: https://`pod.labels["secure_host"]`
```

The value of `secure_url` will be `https://` concatenated with the value of
the `secure_host` label.

This can also be used when the discovered endpoint needs to be changed
dynamically. For instance, suppose the IP `1.2.3.4` is discovered without a
port but the port needs to be set inside endpoint. You could do:

```yaml
config:
   endpoint: '`endpoint`:8080'
```

If your target receiver provides an `endpoint` config field and you aren't
manually setting it like the above example, the observer endpoint target value
will automatically be sourced. If no `endpoint` field is available you are
required to specify any necessary fields.

**receivers.resource_attributes**

```yaml
resource_attributes:
  <endpoint type>:
    <attribute>: <attribute value>
```

This setting controls what resource attributes are set on telemetry emitted from the created receiver. These attributes can be set from [values in the endpoint](#rule-expressions) that was matched by the `rule`. These attributes vary based on the endpoint type. These defaults can be disabled by setting the attribute to be removed to an empty value. Note that the values can be dynamic and processed the same as in `config`.

Note that the backticks below are not typos--they indicate the value is set dynamically.

`type == "pod"`

| Resource Attribute | Default       |
|--------------------|---------------|
| k8s.pod.name       | \`name\`      |
| k8s.pod.uid        | \`uid\`       |
| k8s.namespace.name | \`namespace\` |

`type == "port"`

| Resource Attribute | Default           |
|--------------------|-------------------|
| k8s.pod.name       | \`pod.name\`      |
| k8s.pod.uid        | \`pod.uid\`       |
| k8s.namespace.name | \`pod.namespace\` |

`type == "container"`

| Resource Attribute   | Default           |
|----------------------|-------------------|
| container.name       | \`name\`          |
| container.image.name | \`image\`         |

`type == "hostport"`

None

`type == "k8s.node"`

| Resource Attribute | Default           |
|--------------------|-------------------|
| k8s.node.name      | \`name\`          |
| k8s.node.uid       | \`uid\`           |

See `redis/2` in [examples](#examples).


**receivers.&lt;receiver_type/id&gt;.resource_attributes**

```yaml
receivers:
  <receiver_type>:
    resource_attributes:
      <attribute>: <attribute string value>
```

Similar to the per-endpoint type `resource_attributes` described above but for individual receiver instances. Duplicate attribute entries (including the empty string) in this receiver-specific mapping take precedence. These attribute values also support expansion from endpoint environment content. At this time their values must be strings.

## Rule Expressions

Each rule must start with `type == ("pod"|"port"|"hostport"|"container"|"k8s.node") &&` such that the rule matches
only one endpoint type. Depending on the type of endpoint the rule is
targeting it will have different variables available.

### Pod

| Variable    | Description                       |
|-------------|-----------------------------------|
| type        | `"pod"`                           |
| id          | ID of source endpoint             |
| name        | name of the pod                   |
| namespace   | namespace of the pod              |
| uid         | unique id of the pod              |
| labels      | map of labels set on the pod      |
| annotations | map of annotations set on the pod |

### Port

| Variable        | Description                             |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------|
| type            | `"port"`                                |
| id              | ID of source endpoint                   |
| name            | container port name                     |
| port            | port number                             |
| protocol        | The transport protocol ("TCP" or "UDP") |
| pod.name        | name of the owning pod                  |
| pod.namespace   | namespace of the pod                    |
| pod.uid         | unique id of the pod                    |
| pod.labels      | map of labels of the owning pod         |
| pod.annotations | map of annotations of the owning pod    |

### Host Port

| Variable      | Description                                      |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| type          | `"hostport"`                                     |
| id            | ID of source endpoint                            |
| process_name  | Name of the process                              |
| command       | Command line with the used to invoke the process |
| is_ipv6       | true if endpoint is IPv6, otherwise false        |
| port          | Port number                                      |
| transport     | The transport protocol ("TCP" or "UDP")          |

### Container

| Variable       | Description                                                       |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| type           | `"container"`                                                     |
| id             | ID of source endpoint                                             |
| name           | Primary name of the container                                     |
| image          | Name of the container image                                       |
| port           | Exposed port of the container                                     |
| alternate_port | Exposed port accessed through redirection, such as a mapped port  |
| command        | The command used to invoke the process of the container           |
| container_id   | ID of the container                                               |
| host           | Hostname or IP of the underlying host the container is running on |
| transport      | Transport protocol used by the endpoint (TCP or UDP)              |
| labels         | User-specified metadata labels on the container                   |

### Kubernetes Node

| Variable       | Description                                                       |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| type                  | `"k8s.node"`                                                                                                           |
| id                    | ID of source endpoint                                                                                                  |
| name                  | The name of the Kubernetes node                                                                                        |
| uid                   | The unique ID for the node                                                                                             |
| hostname              | The node's hostname as reported by its Status object                                                                   |
| external_ip           | The node's external IP address as reported by its Status object                                                        |
| internal_ip           | The node's internal IP address as reported by its Status object                                                        |
| external_dns          | The node's external DNS record as reported by its Status object                                                        |
| internal_dns          | The node's internal DNS record as reported by its Status object                                                        |
| annotations           | A key-value map of non-identifying, user-specified node metadata                                                       |
| labels                | A key-value map of user-specified node metadata                                                                        |
| kubelet_endpoint_port | The node Status object's DaemonEndpoints.KubeletEndpoint.Port value                                                    |

## Examples

```yaml
extensions:
  # Configures the Kubernetes observer to watch for pod start and stop events.
  k8s_observer:
  host_observer:

receivers:
  receiver_creator/1:
    # Name of the extensions to watch for endpoints to start and stop.
    watch_observers: [k8s_observer]
    receivers:
      prometheus_simple:
        # Configure prometheus scraping if standard prometheus annotations are set on the pod.
        rule: type == "pod" && annotations["prometheus.io/scrape"] == "true"
        config:
          metrics_path: '`"prometheus.io/path" in annotations ? annotations["prometheus.io/path"] : "/metrics"`'
          endpoint: '`endpoint`:`"prometheus.io/port" in annotations ? annotations["prometheus.io/port"] : 9090`'
        resource_attributes:
          an.attribute: a.value
          # Dynamic configuration values
          app.version: '`labels["app_version"]`'

      redis/1:
        # If this rule matches an instance of this receiver will be started.
        rule: type == "port" && port == 6379
        config:
          # Static receiver-specific config.
          password: secret
          # Dynamic configuration value.
          collection_interval: '`pod.annotations["collection_interval"]`'

      redis/2:
        # Set a resource attribute based on endpoint value.
        rule: type == "port" && port == 6379

    resource_attributes:
      # Dynamic configuration values, overwriting default attributes`
      pod:
        service.name: '`labels["service_name"]`'
        app: '`labels["app"]`'
      port:
        service.name: '`pod.labels["service_name"]`'
        app: '`pod.labels["app"]`'
  receiver_creator/2:
    # Name of the extensions to watch for endpoints to start and stop.
    watch_observers: [host_observer]
    receivers:
      redis/on_host:
        # If this rule matches an instance of this receiver will be started.
        rule: type == "port" && port == 6379 && is_ipv6 == true
        resource_attributes:
          service.name: redis_on_host
  receiver_creator/3:
    watch_observers: [k8s_observer]
    receivers:
      kubeletstats:
        rule: type == "k8s.node"
        config:
          auth_type: serviceAccount
          collection_interval: 10s
          endpoint: '`endpoint`:`kubelet_endpoint_port`'
          extra_metadata_labels:
            - container.id
          metric_groups:
            - container
            - pod
            - node

processors:
  exampleprocessor:

exporters:
  exampleexporter:

service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [receiver_creator/1, receiver_creator/2, receiver_creator/3]
      processors: [exampleprocessor]
      exporters: [exampleexporter]
  extensions: [k8s_observer, host_observer]
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented [here](./config.go)
with detailed sample configurations [here](./testdata/config.yaml).
