pkg/ottl/README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry Transformation Language

The OpenTelemetry Transformation Language is a language for transforming open telemetry data based on the [OpenTelemetry Collector Processing Exploration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/processing.md).

This package reads in OTTL statements and converts them to invokable Booleans and functions based on the OTTL's grammar.

The OTTL is signal agnostic; it is not aware of the type of telemetry on which it will operate.  Instead, the Booleans and functions returned by the package must be passed a `TransformContext`, which provide access to the signal's telemetry. Telemetry data can be accessed and updated through [Getters and Setters](#getters-and-setters).

## Grammar

The OTTL grammar includes function invocations, Values and Boolean Expressions. These parts all fit into a Statement, which is the basis of execution in the OTTL.

### Editors

Editors are functions that transform the underlying telemetry payload. They may return a value, but typically do not. There must be a single Editor Invocation in each OTTL statement.

An Editor is made up of 2 parts:

- a string identifier. The string identifier must start with a lowercase letter.
- zero or more Values (comma separated) surrounded by parentheses (`()`).

**The OTTL has no built-in Editors.**
Users must supply a map between string identifiers and Editor implementations.
The OTTL will use this map to determine which implementation to call when executing a Statement.
See [ottlfuncs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#editors) for pre-made, usable Editors.

### Converters

Converters are functions that convert data to a new format before being passed as a function argument or used in a Boolean Expression.
Converters are made up of 3 parts:

- a string identifier. The string identifier must start with an uppercase letter.
- zero or more Values (comma separated) surrounded by parentheses (`()`).
- a combination of zero or more a string key (`["key"]`) or int key (`[0]`)

**The OTTL has no built-in Converters.**
Users must include Converters in the same map that Editors are supplied.
The OTTL will use this map and reflection to generate Converters that can then be invoked by the user.
See [ottlfuncs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#converters) for pre-made, usable Converters.

When keys are supplied the value returned by the Converter will be indexed by the keys in order.
If keys are supplied to a Converter and the return value cannot be indexed, or if the return value doesn't support the
type of key supplied, OTTL will error. Supported values are:

| Type             | Index Type |
|------------------|------------|
| `pcommon.Map`    | `String`   |
| `map[string]any` | `String`   |
| `pcommon.Slice`  | `Int`      |
| `[]any`          | `Int`      |

Example Converters
- `Int()`
- `IsMatch(field, ".*")`
- `Split(field, ",")[1]`

### Function parameters

The following types are supported for single-value parameters in OTTL functions:

- `Setter`
- `GetSetter`
- `Getter`
- `PMapGetter`
- `FloatGetter`
- `FloatLikeGetter`
- `StringGetter`
- `StringLikeGetter`
- `IntGetter`
- `IntLikeGetter`
- `Enum`
- `string`
- `float64`
- `int64`
- `bool`

For slice parameters, the following types are supported:

- `Getter`
- `PMapGetter`
- `FloatGetter`
- `FloatLikeGetter`
- `StringGetter`
- `StringLikeGetter`
- `IntGetter`
- `IntLikeGetter`
- `string`
- `float64`
- `int64`
- `uint8`. Byte slice literals are parsed as byte slices by the OTTL.
- `Getter`

### Values

Values are passed as function parameters or are used in a Boolean Expression. Values can take the form of:

- [Paths](#paths)
- [Lists](#lists)
- [Literals](#literals)
- [Enums](#enums)
- [Converters](#converters)
- [Math Expressions](#math-expressions)

### Paths

A Path Value is a reference to a telemetry field.  Paths are made up of lowercase identifiers, dots (`.`), and square brackets combined with a string key (`["key"]`) or int key (`[0]`).  **The interpretation of a Path is NOT implemented by the OTTL.**  Instead, the user must provide a `PathExpressionParser` that the OTTL can use to interpret paths.  As a result, how the Path parts are used is up to the user.  However, it is recommended that the parts be used like so:

- Identifiers are used to map to a telemetry field.
- Dots (`.`) are used to separate nested fields.
- Square brackets and keys (`["key"]`) are used to access values within maps.

When accessing a map's value, if the given key does not exist, `nil` will be returned.
This can be used to check for the presence of a key within a map within a [Boolean Expression](#boolean-expressions).

Example Paths
- `name`
- `value_double`
- `resource.name`
- `resource.attributes["key"]`
- `attributes["nested"]["values"]`
- `cache["slice"][1]`

#### Contexts

The package that handles the interpretation of a path is normally called a Context.
Contexts will have an implementation of `PathExpressionParser` that decides how an OTTL Path is interpreted.
The context's implementation will need to make decisions like what a dot (`.`) represents or which paths allow indexing (`["key"]`) and how many indexes.

[There are OpenTelemetry-specific contexts provided for each signal here.](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/ottl/contexts)
When using OTTL it is recommended to use these contexts unless you have a specific need.  Check out each context to view the paths it supports. 

### Lists

A List Value comprises a sequence of Values.
Currently, list can only be created by the grammar to be used in functions or conditions;
the grammar does not provide an accessor to individual list entries.

Example List Values:
- `[]`
- `[1]`
- `["1", "2", "3"]`
- `["a", attributes["key"], Concat(["a", "b"], "-")]`

### Literals

Literals are literal interpretations of the Value into a Go value.  Accepted literals are:

- Strings. Strings are represented as literals by surrounding the string in double quotes (`""`).
- Ints.  Ints are represented by any digit, optionally prepended by plus (`+`) or minus (`-`). Internally the OTTL represents all ints as `int64`
- Floats.  Floats are represented by digits separated by a dot (`.`), optionally prepended by plus (`+`) or minus (`-`). The leading digit is optional. Internally the OTTL represents all Floats as `float64`.
- Bools.  Bools are represented by the exact strings `true` and `false`.
- Nil.  Nil is represented by the exact string `nil`.
- Byte slices.  Byte slices are represented via a hex string prefaced with `0x`

Example Literals
- `"a string"`
- `1`, `-1`
- `1.5`, `-.5`
- `true`, `false`
- `nil`,
- `0x0001`

### Enums

Enums are uppercase identifiers that get interpreted during parsing and converted to an `int64`. **The interpretation of an Enum is NOT implemented by the OTTL.** Instead, the user must provide a `EnumParser` that the OTTL can use to interpret the Enum.  The `EnumParser` returns an `int64` instead of a function, which means that the Enum's numeric value is retrieved during parsing instead of during execution.

Within the grammar Enums are always used as `int64`.  As a result, the Enum's symbol can be used as if it is an Int value.

When defining an OTTL function, if the function needs to take an Enum then the function must use the `Enum` type for that argument, not an `int64`.

### Math Expressions

Math Expressions represent arithmetic calculations.  They support `+`, `-`, `*`, and `/`, along with `()` for grouping.

Math Expressions currently support `int64`, `float64`, `time.Time` and `time.Duration`. 
For `time.Time` and `time.Duration`, only `+` and `-` are supported with the following rules: 
  - A `time.Time` `-` a `time.Time` yields a `time.Duration`.
  - A `time.Duration` `+` a `time.Time` yields a `time.Time`. 
  - A `time.Time` `+`  a `time.Duration` yields a `time.Time`.
  - A `time.Time` `-`  a `time.Duration` yields a `time.Time`.
  - A `time.Duration` `+` a `time.Duration` yields a `time.Duration`.
  - A `time.Duration` `-` a `time.Duration` yields a `time.Duration`.

Math Expressions support `Paths` and `Editors` that return supported types.
Note that `*` and `/` take precedence over `+` and `-`.
Also note that `time.Time` and `time.Duration` can only be used with `+` and `-`. 
Operations that share the same level of precedence will be executed in the order that they appear in the Math Expression.
Math Expressions can be grouped with parentheses to override evaluation precedence.
Math Expressions that mix `int64` and `float64` will result in an error.
It is up to the function using the Math Expression to determine what to do with that error and the default return value of `nil`.
Division by zero is gracefully handled with an error, but other arithmetic operations that would result in a panic will still result in a panic.
Division of integers results in an integer and follows Go's rules for division of integers.

Since Math Expressions support `Path`s and `Converter`s as input, they are evaluated during data processing.
__As a result, in order for a function to be able to accept an Math Expressions as a parameter it must use a `Getter`.__

Example Math Expressions
- `1 + 1`
- `end_time_unix_nano - end_time_unix_nano`
- `sum([1, 2, 3, 4]) + (10 / 1) - 1`


### Boolean Expressions

Boolean Expressions allow a decision to be made about whether an Editor should be called. Boolean Expressions are optional.  When used, the parsed statement will include a `Condition`, which can be used to evaluate the result of the statement's Boolean Expression. Boolean Expressions always evaluate to a boolean value (true or false).

Boolean Expressions consist of the literal string `where` followed by one or more Booleans (see below).
Booleans can be joined with the literal strings `and` and `or`.
Booleans can be negated with the literal string `not`.
Note that `not` has the highest precedence and `and` Boolean Expressions have higher precedence than `or`.
Boolean Expressions can be grouped with parentheses to override evaluation precedence.

### Booleans

Booleans can be either:
- A literal boolean value (`true` or `false`).
- A Converter that returns a boolean value (`true` or `false`).
- A Comparison, made up of a left Value, an operator, and a right Value. See [Values](#values) for details on what a Value can be.

Operators determine how the two Values are compared.

The valid operators are:

- Equal (`==`). Tests if the left and right Values are equal (see the Comparison Rules below).
- Not Equal (`!=`).  Tests if the left and right Values are not equal.
- Less Than (`<`). Tests if left is less than right.
- Greater Than (`>`). Tests if left is greater than right.
- Less Than or Equal To (`<=`). Tests if left is less than or equal to right.
- Greater Than or Equal to (`>=`). Tests if left is greater than or equal to right.

Booleans can be negated with the `not` keyword such as
- `not true`
- `not name == "foo"`
- `not (IsMatch(name, "http_.*") and kind > 0)`

## Comparison Rules

The table below describes what happens when two Values are compared. Value types are provided by the user of OTTL. All of the value types supported by OTTL are listed in this table.

If numeric values are of different types, they are compared as `float64`.

For numeric values and strings, the comparison rules are those implemented by Go. Numeric values are done with signed comparisons. For binary values, `false` is considered to be less than `true`.

For values that are not one of the basic primitive types, the only valid comparisons are Equal and Not Equal, which are implemented using Go's standard `==` and `!=` operators.

A `not equal` notation in the table below means that the "!=" operator returns true, but any other operator returns false. Note that a nil byte array is considered equivalent to nil.

The `time.Time` and `time.Duration` types are compared using comparison functions from their respective packages. For more details on how those comparisons work, see the [Golang Time package](https://pkg.go.dev/time).


| base type     | bool        | int64               | float64             | string                          | Bytes                    | nil                    | time.Time                                                    | time.Duration                                        |
|---------------|-------------|---------------------|---------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------|------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| bool          | normal, T>F | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| int64         | not equal   | compared as largest | compared as float64 | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| float64       | not equal   | compared as float64 | compared as largest | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| string        | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | normal (compared as Go strings) | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| Bytes         | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | byte-for-byte comparison | []byte(nil) == nil     | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| nil           | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | []byte(nil) == nil       | true for equality only | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| time.Time     | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | uses `time.Equal()`to check equality | not equal                                            |
| time.Duration | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | uses `time.Before()` and `time.After` for comparison |

Examples:
- `name == "a name"`
- `1 < 2`
- `attributes["custom-attr"] != nil`
- `IsMatch(resource.attributes["host.name"], "pod-*")`

## Accessing signal telemetry

Access to signal telemetry is provided to OTTL functions through a `TransformContext` that is created by the user and passed during statement evaluation. To allow functions to operate on the `TransformContext`, the OTTL provides `Getter`, `Setter`, and `GetSetter` interfaces.

### Getters and Setters

Getters allow for reading the following types of data. See the respective section of each Value type for how they are interpreted.

- [Paths](#paths).
- [Enums](#enums).
- [Literals](#literals).
- [Converters](#converters).

It is possible to update the Value in a telemetry field using a Setter. For read and write access, the `GetSetter` interface extends both interfaces.

## Logging inside a OTTL function

To emit logs inside a OTTL function, add a parameter of type [`component.TelemetrySettings`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/component#TelemetrySettings) to the function signature. The OTTL will then inject the TelemetrySettings that were passed to `NewParser` into the function.  TelemetrySettings can be used to emit logs.

## Examples

These examples contain a SQL-like declarative language.  Applied statements interact with only one signal, but statements can be declared across multiple signals.  Functions used in examples are indicative of what could be useful, but are not implemented by the OTTL itself.

### Remove a forbidden attribute

```
traces:
  delete(attributes["http.request.header.authorization"])
metrics:
  delete(attributes["http.request.header.authorization"])
logs:
  delete(attributes["http.request.header.authorization"])
```

### Remove all attributes except for some

```
traces:
  keep_keys(attributes, ["http.method", "http.status_code"])
metrics:
  keep_keys(attributes, ["http.method", "http.status_code"])
logs:
  keep_keys(attributes, ["http.method", "http.status_code"])
```

### Reduce cardinality of an attribute

```
traces:
  replace_match(attributes["http.target"], "/user/*/list/*", "/user/{userId}/list/{listId}")
```

### Reduce cardinality of a span name

```
traces:
  replace_match(name, "GET /user/*/list/*", "GET /user/{userId}/list/{listId}")
```

### Reduce cardinality of any matching attribute

```
traces:
  replace_all_matches(attributes, "/user/*/list/*", "/user/{userId}/list/{listId}")
```

### Decrease the size of the telemetry payload

```
traces:
  delete(resource.attributes["process.command_line"])
metrics:
  delete(resource.attributes["process.command_line"])
logs:
  delete(resource.attributes["process.command_line"])
```

### Attach information from resource into telemetry

```
metrics:
  set(attributes["k8s_pod"], resource.attributes["k8s.pod.name"])
```

### Decorate error spans with additional information

```
traces:
  set(attributes["whose_fault"], "theirs") where attributes["http.status"] == 400 or attributes["http.status"] == 404
  set(attributes["whose_fault"], "ours") where attributes["http.status"] == 500
```

### Update a spans ID

```
logs:
  set(span_id, SpanID(0x0000000000000000))
traces:
  set(span_id, SpanID(0x0000000000000000))
```

### Convert metric name to snake case

```
metrics:
  set(metric.name, ConvertCase(metric.name, "snake"))
```

### Check if an attribute exists

```
traces:
  set(attributes["test-passed"], true) where attributes["target-attribute"] != nil
```

Commit message:

Add support for optional parameters in OTTL

pkg/ottl/README.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry Transformation Language

The OpenTelemetry Transformation Language is a language for transforming open telemetry data based on the [OpenTelemetry Collector Processing Exploration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/processing.md).

This package reads in OTTL statements and converts them to invokable Booleans and functions based on the OTTL's grammar.

The OTTL is signal agnostic; it is not aware of the type of telemetry on which it will operate.  Instead, the Booleans and functions returned by the package must be passed a `TransformContext`, which provide access to the signal's telemetry. Telemetry data can be accessed and updated through [Getters and Setters](#getters-and-setters).

## Grammar

The OTTL grammar includes function invocations, Values and Boolean Expressions. These parts all fit into a Statement, which is the basis of execution in the OTTL.

### Editors

Editors are functions that transform the underlying telemetry payload. They may return a value, but typically do not. There must be a single Editor Invocation in each OTTL statement.

An Editor is made up of 2 parts:

- a string identifier. The string identifier must start with a lowercase letter.
- zero or more Values (comma separated) surrounded by parentheses (`()`).

**The OTTL has no built-in Editors.**
Users must supply a map between string identifiers and Editor implementations.
The OTTL will use this map to determine which implementation to call when executing a Statement.
See [ottlfuncs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#editors) for pre-made, usable Editors.

### Converters

Converters are functions that convert data to a new format before being passed as a function argument or used in a Boolean Expression.
Converters are made up of 3 parts:

- a string identifier. The string identifier must start with an uppercase letter.
- zero or more Values (comma separated) surrounded by parentheses (`()`).
- a combination of zero or more a string key (`["key"]`) or int key (`[0]`)

**The OTTL has no built-in Converters.**
Users must include Converters in the same map that Editors are supplied.
The OTTL will use this map and reflection to generate Converters that can then be invoked by the user.
See [ottlfuncs](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#converters) for pre-made, usable Converters.

When keys are supplied the value returned by the Converter will be indexed by the keys in order.
If keys are supplied to a Converter and the return value cannot be indexed, or if the return value doesn't support the
type of key supplied, OTTL will error. Supported values are:

| Type             | Index Type |
|------------------|------------|
| `pcommon.Map`    | `String`   |
| `map[string]any` | `String`   |
| `pcommon.Slice`  | `Int`      |
| `[]any`          | `Int`      |

Example Converters
- `Int()`
- `IsMatch(field, ".*")`
- `Split(field, ",")[1]`

### Function parameters

The following types are supported for single-value parameters in OTTL functions:

- `Setter`
- `GetSetter`
- `Getter`
- `PMapGetter`
- `FloatGetter`
- `FloatLikeGetter`
- `StringGetter`
- `StringLikeGetter`
- `IntGetter`
- `IntLikeGetter`
- `Enum`
- `string`
- `float64`
- `int64`
- `bool`

For slice parameters, the following types are supported:

- `Getter`
- `PMapGetter`
- `FloatGetter`
- `FloatLikeGetter`
- `StringGetter`
- `StringLikeGetter`
- `IntGetter`
- `IntLikeGetter`
- `string`
- `float64`
- `int64`
- `uint8`. Byte slice literals are parsed as byte slices by the OTTL.
- `Getter`

To make a parameter optional, use the `Optional` type, which takes a type argument for the underlying
parameter type. For example, an optional string parameter would be specified as `Optional[string]`.
All optional parameters must be specified after all required parameters.

#### Arguments in invocations

Function arguments must be passed in the order defined in the `Arguments` struct for the function unless they are named, in which case the arguments can come in any order. All named arguments must come after all arguments without
names. Argument names are snake-cased versions of the argument's field name in the function's `Arguments` struct.

When passing optional arguments, all optional arguments preceding a given optional argument must be specified if
the arguments are not named. Passing a named argument allows skipping the preceding optional arguments.

### Values

Values are passed as function parameters or are used in a Boolean Expression. Values can take the form of:

- [Paths](#paths)
- [Lists](#lists)
- [Literals](#literals)
- [Enums](#enums)
- [Converters](#converters)
- [Math Expressions](#math-expressions)

### Paths

A Path Value is a reference to a telemetry field.  Paths are made up of lowercase identifiers, dots (`.`), and square brackets combined with a string key (`["key"]`) or int key (`[0]`).  **The interpretation of a Path is NOT implemented by the OTTL.**  Instead, the user must provide a `PathExpressionParser` that the OTTL can use to interpret paths.  As a result, how the Path parts are used is up to the user.  However, it is recommended that the parts be used like so:

- Identifiers are used to map to a telemetry field.
- Dots (`.`) are used to separate nested fields.
- Square brackets and keys (`["key"]`) are used to access values within maps.

When accessing a map's value, if the given key does not exist, `nil` will be returned.
This can be used to check for the presence of a key within a map within a [Boolean Expression](#boolean-expressions).

Example Paths
- `name`
- `value_double`
- `resource.name`
- `resource.attributes["key"]`
- `attributes["nested"]["values"]`
- `cache["slice"][1]`

#### Contexts

The package that handles the interpretation of a path is normally called a Context.
Contexts will have an implementation of `PathExpressionParser` that decides how an OTTL Path is interpreted.
The context's implementation will need to make decisions like what a dot (`.`) represents or which paths allow indexing (`["key"]`) and how many indexes.

[There are OpenTelemetry-specific contexts provided for each signal here.](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/ottl/contexts)
When using OTTL it is recommended to use these contexts unless you have a specific need.  Check out each context to view the paths it supports. 

### Lists

A List Value comprises a sequence of Values.
Currently, list can only be created by the grammar to be used in functions or conditions;
the grammar does not provide an accessor to individual list entries.

Example List Values:
- `[]`
- `[1]`
- `["1", "2", "3"]`
- `["a", attributes["key"], Concat(["a", "b"], "-")]`

### Literals

Literals are literal interpretations of the Value into a Go value.  Accepted literals are:

- Strings. Strings are represented as literals by surrounding the string in double quotes (`""`).
- Ints.  Ints are represented by any digit, optionally prepended by plus (`+`) or minus (`-`). Internally the OTTL represents all ints as `int64`
- Floats.  Floats are represented by digits separated by a dot (`.`), optionally prepended by plus (`+`) or minus (`-`). The leading digit is optional. Internally the OTTL represents all Floats as `float64`.
- Bools.  Bools are represented by the exact strings `true` and `false`.
- Nil.  Nil is represented by the exact string `nil`.
- Byte slices.  Byte slices are represented via a hex string prefaced with `0x`

Example Literals
- `"a string"`
- `1`, `-1`
- `1.5`, `-.5`
- `true`, `false`
- `nil`,
- `0x0001`

### Enums

Enums are uppercase identifiers that get interpreted during parsing and converted to an `int64`. **The interpretation of an Enum is NOT implemented by the OTTL.** Instead, the user must provide a `EnumParser` that the OTTL can use to interpret the Enum.  The `EnumParser` returns an `int64` instead of a function, which means that the Enum's numeric value is retrieved during parsing instead of during execution.

Within the grammar Enums are always used as `int64`.  As a result, the Enum's symbol can be used as if it is an Int value.

When defining an OTTL function, if the function needs to take an Enum then the function must use the `Enum` type for that argument, not an `int64`.

### Math Expressions

Math Expressions represent arithmetic calculations.  They support `+`, `-`, `*`, and `/`, along with `()` for grouping.

Math Expressions currently support `int64`, `float64`, `time.Time` and `time.Duration`. 
For `time.Time` and `time.Duration`, only `+` and `-` are supported with the following rules: 
  - A `time.Time` `-` a `time.Time` yields a `time.Duration`.
  - A `time.Duration` `+` a `time.Time` yields a `time.Time`. 
  - A `time.Time` `+`  a `time.Duration` yields a `time.Time`.
  - A `time.Time` `-`  a `time.Duration` yields a `time.Time`.
  - A `time.Duration` `+` a `time.Duration` yields a `time.Duration`.
  - A `time.Duration` `-` a `time.Duration` yields a `time.Duration`.

Math Expressions support `Paths` and `Editors` that return supported types.
Note that `*` and `/` take precedence over `+` and `-`.
Also note that `time.Time` and `time.Duration` can only be used with `+` and `-`. 
Operations that share the same level of precedence will be executed in the order that they appear in the Math Expression.
Math Expressions can be grouped with parentheses to override evaluation precedence.
Math Expressions that mix `int64` and `float64` will result in an error.
It is up to the function using the Math Expression to determine what to do with that error and the default return value of `nil`.
Division by zero is gracefully handled with an error, but other arithmetic operations that would result in a panic will still result in a panic.
Division of integers results in an integer and follows Go's rules for division of integers.

Since Math Expressions support `Path`s and `Converter`s as input, they are evaluated during data processing.
__As a result, in order for a function to be able to accept an Math Expressions as a parameter it must use a `Getter`.__

Example Math Expressions
- `1 + 1`
- `end_time_unix_nano - end_time_unix_nano`
- `sum([1, 2, 3, 4]) + (10 / 1) - 1`


### Boolean Expressions

Boolean Expressions allow a decision to be made about whether an Editor should be called. Boolean Expressions are optional.  When used, the parsed statement will include a `Condition`, which can be used to evaluate the result of the statement's Boolean Expression. Boolean Expressions always evaluate to a boolean value (true or false).

Boolean Expressions consist of the literal string `where` followed by one or more Booleans (see below).
Booleans can be joined with the literal strings `and` and `or`.
Booleans can be negated with the literal string `not`.
Note that `not` has the highest precedence and `and` Boolean Expressions have higher precedence than `or`.
Boolean Expressions can be grouped with parentheses to override evaluation precedence.

### Booleans

Booleans can be either:
- A literal boolean value (`true` or `false`).
- A Converter that returns a boolean value (`true` or `false`).
- A Comparison, made up of a left Value, an operator, and a right Value. See [Values](#values) for details on what a Value can be.

Operators determine how the two Values are compared.

The valid operators are:

- Equal (`==`). Tests if the left and right Values are equal (see the Comparison Rules below).
- Not Equal (`!=`).  Tests if the left and right Values are not equal.
- Less Than (`<`). Tests if left is less than right.
- Greater Than (`>`). Tests if left is greater than right.
- Less Than or Equal To (`<=`). Tests if left is less than or equal to right.
- Greater Than or Equal to (`>=`). Tests if left is greater than or equal to right.

Booleans can be negated with the `not` keyword such as
- `not true`
- `not name == "foo"`
- `not (IsMatch(name, "http_.*") and kind > 0)`

## Comparison Rules

The table below describes what happens when two Values are compared. Value types are provided by the user of OTTL. All of the value types supported by OTTL are listed in this table.

If numeric values are of different types, they are compared as `float64`.

For numeric values and strings, the comparison rules are those implemented by Go. Numeric values are done with signed comparisons. For binary values, `false` is considered to be less than `true`.

For values that are not one of the basic primitive types, the only valid comparisons are Equal and Not Equal, which are implemented using Go's standard `==` and `!=` operators.

A `not equal` notation in the table below means that the "!=" operator returns true, but any other operator returns false. Note that a nil byte array is considered equivalent to nil.

The `time.Time` and `time.Duration` types are compared using comparison functions from their respective packages. For more details on how those comparisons work, see the [Golang Time package](https://pkg.go.dev/time).


| base type     | bool        | int64               | float64             | string                          | Bytes                    | nil                    | time.Time                                                    | time.Duration                                        |
|---------------|-------------|---------------------|---------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------------|------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| bool          | normal, T>F | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| int64         | not equal   | compared as largest | compared as float64 | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| float64       | not equal   | compared as float64 | compared as largest | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| string        | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | normal (compared as Go strings) | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| Bytes         | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | byte-for-byte comparison | []byte(nil) == nil     | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| nil           | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | []byte(nil) == nil       | true for equality only | not equal                                                    | not equal                                            |
| time.Time     | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | uses `time.Equal()`to check equality | not equal                                            |
| time.Duration | not equal   | not equal           | not equal           | not equal                       | not equal                | not equal              | not equal                                                    | uses `time.Before()` and `time.After` for comparison |

Examples:
- `name == "a name"`
- `1 < 2`
- `attributes["custom-attr"] != nil`
- `IsMatch(resource.attributes["host.name"], "pod-*")`

## Accessing signal telemetry

Access to signal telemetry is provided to OTTL functions through a `TransformContext` that is created by the user and passed during statement evaluation. To allow functions to operate on the `TransformContext`, the OTTL provides `Getter`, `Setter`, and `GetSetter` interfaces.

### Getters and Setters

Getters allow for reading the following types of data. See the respective section of each Value type for how they are interpreted.

- [Paths](#paths).
- [Enums](#enums).
- [Literals](#literals).
- [Converters](#converters).

It is possible to update the Value in a telemetry field using a Setter. For read and write access, the `GetSetter` interface extends both interfaces.

## Logging inside a OTTL function

To emit logs inside a OTTL function, add a parameter of type [`component.TelemetrySettings`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/component#TelemetrySettings) to the function signature. The OTTL will then inject the TelemetrySettings that were passed to `NewParser` into the function.  TelemetrySettings can be used to emit logs.

## Examples

These examples contain a SQL-like declarative language.  Applied statements interact with only one signal, but statements can be declared across multiple signals.  Functions used in examples are indicative of what could be useful, but are not implemented by the OTTL itself.

### Remove a forbidden attribute

```
traces:
  delete(attributes["http.request.header.authorization"])
metrics:
  delete(attributes["http.request.header.authorization"])
logs:
  delete(attributes["http.request.header.authorization"])
```

### Remove all attributes except for some

```
traces:
  keep_keys(attributes, ["http.method", "http.status_code"])
metrics:
  keep_keys(attributes, ["http.method", "http.status_code"])
logs:
  keep_keys(attributes, ["http.method", "http.status_code"])
```

### Reduce cardinality of an attribute

```
traces:
  replace_match(attributes["http.target"], "/user/*/list/*", "/user/{userId}/list/{listId}")
```

### Reduce cardinality of a span name

```
traces:
  replace_match(name, "GET /user/*/list/*", "GET /user/{userId}/list/{listId}")
```

### Reduce cardinality of any matching attribute

```
traces:
  replace_all_matches(attributes, "/user/*/list/*", "/user/{userId}/list/{listId}")
```

### Decrease the size of the telemetry payload

```
traces:
  delete(resource.attributes["process.command_line"])
metrics:
  delete(resource.attributes["process.command_line"])
logs:
  delete(resource.attributes["process.command_line"])
```

### Attach information from resource into telemetry

```
metrics:
  set(attributes["k8s_pod"], resource.attributes["k8s.pod.name"])
```

### Decorate error spans with additional information

```
traces:
  set(attributes["whose_fault"], "theirs") where attributes["http.status"] == 400 or attributes["http.status"] == 404
  set(attributes["whose_fault"], "ours") where attributes["http.status"] == 500
```

### Update a spans ID

```
logs:
  set(span_id, SpanID(0x0000000000000000))
traces:
  set(span_id, SpanID(0x0000000000000000))
```

### Convert metric name to snake case

```
metrics:
  set(metric.name, ConvertCase(metric.name, "snake"))
```

### Check if an attribute exists

```
traces:
  set(attributes["test-passed"], true) where attributes["target-attribute"] != nil
```
