receiver/splunkenterprisereceiver/documentation.md, before:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# splunkenterprise

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### splunk.aggregation.queue.ratio

Gauge tracking the average indexer aggregation queue ration (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.buckets.searchable.status

Gauge tracking the number of buckets and their searchable status. *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {count} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |
| splunk.indexer.searchable | The searchability status reported for a specific object | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.avg.rate

Gauge tracking the average rate of indexed data. **Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| KBy | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.cpu.time

Gauge tracking the number of indexing process cpu seconds per instance

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {s} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.queue.ratio

Gauge tracking the average indexer index queue ration (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.raw.write.time

Gauge tracking the number of raw write seconds per instance

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {s} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.avg.size

Gauge tracking the indexes and their average size (gb). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| Gb | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.avg.usage

Gauge tracking the indexes and their average usage (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.bucket.count

Gauge tracking the indexes and their bucket counts. *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {count} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.median.data.age

Gauge tracking the indexes and their median data age (days). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {days} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.size

Gauge tracking the indexes and their total size (gb). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| Gb | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.io.avg.iops

Gauge tracking the average IOPs used per instance

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {iops} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.license.index.usage

Gauge tracking the indexed license usage per index

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.parse.queue.ratio

Gauge tracking the average indexer parser queue ration (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.pipeline.set.count

Gauge tracking the number of pipeline sets per indexer. **Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| KBy | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.scheduler.avg.execution.latency

Gauge tracking the average execution latency of scheduled searches

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {ms} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.scheduler.avg.run.time

Gauge tracking the average runtime of scheduled searches

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {ms} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.scheduler.completion.ratio

Gauge tracking the ratio of completed to skipped scheduled searches

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.typing.queue.ratio

Gauge tracking the average indexer typing queue ration (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.bucket.count

Count of buckets per index

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {buckets} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.bucket.event.count

Count of events in this bucket super-directory. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint`.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {events} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |
| splunk.bucket.dir | The bucket super-directory (home, cold, thawed) for each index | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.bucket.hot.count

(If size > 0) Number of hot buckets. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint`.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {buckets} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |
| splunk.bucket.dir | The bucket super-directory (home, cold, thawed) for each index | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.bucket.warm.count

(If size > 0) Number of warm buckets. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {buckets} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |
| splunk.bucket.dir | The bucket super-directory (home, cold, thawed) for each index | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.event.count

Count of events for index, excluding frozen events. Approximately equal to the event_count sum of all buckets. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {events} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.raw.size

Size in bytes on disk of the <bucket>/rawdata/ directories of all buckets in this index, excluding frozen *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.total.size

Size in bytes on disk of this index *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.throughput

Gauge tracking average bytes per second throughput of indexer. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By/s | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.indexer.status | The status message reported for a specific object | Any Str |

### splunk.kvstore.backup.status

Backup and restore status of the KV store.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {status} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.kvstore.status.value | The string value of the status returned when reporting on KV store using the introspection endpoint | Any Str |

### splunk.kvstore.replication.status

Replication status of the KV store.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {status} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.kvstore.status.value | The string value of the status returned when reporting on KV store using the introspection endpoint | Any Str |

### splunk.kvstore.status

This is the overall status of the kvstore for the given deployment.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {status} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.kvstore.storage.engine | The backend storage used by the KV store | Any Str |
| splunk.kvstore.external | Value denoting if the KV store is using an external service | Any Str |
| splunk.kvstore.status.value | The string value of the status returned when reporting on KV store using the introspection endpoint | Any Str |

### splunk.server.introspection.queues.current

Gauge tracking current length of queue. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {queues} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.queue.name | The name of the queue reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.server.introspection.queues.current.bytes

Gauge tracking current bytes waiting in queue. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.queue.name | The name of the queue reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.adhoc

Gauge tracking number of ad hoc search artifacts currently on disk. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.completed

Gauge tracking number of artifacts currently on disk that belong to finished searches. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.incomplete

Gauge tracking number of artifacts currently on disk that belong to unfinished/running searches. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.invalid

Gauge tracking number of artifacts currently on disk that are not in a valid state, such as missing info.csv file, etc. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.job.cache.count

Gauge tracking number search artifacts metadata stored in memory, available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.job.cache.size

Gauge tracking, in megabytes, memory used to cache job status and job info of all search artifacts, available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {mb} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |
| splunk.searchartifacts.cache.type | The search artifacts cache type | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.savedsearches

Gauge tracking, for the `splunk.server.searchartifacts.scheduled` number of scheduled search artifacts, how many different saved-searches they belong to. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.scheduled

Gauge tracking number of scheduled search artifacts currently on disk. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

Commit message:

Splunkenterprisereceiver add health metric (#1)
* Initial commit

* Corrected structs to fit json API response

* Added to changelog

* PR number added to changelog

receiver/splunkenterprisereceiver/documentation.md, after:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# splunkenterprise

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### splunk.aggregation.queue.ratio

Gauge tracking the average indexer aggregation queue ration (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.buckets.searchable.status

Gauge tracking the number of buckets and their searchable status. *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {count} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |
| splunk.indexer.searchable | The searchability status reported for a specific object | Any Str |

### splunk.health

The status (color) of the Splunk server.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {status} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.feature | The Feature name from the Splunk Health Introspection Endpoint | Any Str |
| splunk.feature.health | The Health (in color form) of a Splunk Feature from the Splunk Health Introspection Endpoint | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.avg.rate

Gauge tracking the average rate of indexed data. **Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| KBy | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.cpu.time

Gauge tracking the number of indexing process cpu seconds per instance

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {s} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.queue.ratio

Gauge tracking the average indexer index queue ration (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.raw.write.time

Gauge tracking the number of raw write seconds per instance

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {s} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.avg.size

Gauge tracking the indexes and their average size (gb). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| Gb | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.avg.usage

Gauge tracking the indexes and their average usage (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.bucket.count

Gauge tracking the indexes and their bucket counts. *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {count} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.median.data.age

Gauge tracking the indexes and their median data age (days). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {days} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexes.size

Gauge tracking the indexes and their total size (gb). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| Gb | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.io.avg.iops

Gauge tracking the average IOPs used per instance

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {iops} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.license.index.usage

Gauge tracking the indexed license usage per index

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.parse.queue.ratio

Gauge tracking the average indexer parser queue ration (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.pipeline.set.count

Gauge tracking the number of pipeline sets per indexer. **Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| KBy | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.scheduler.avg.execution.latency

Gauge tracking the average execution latency of scheduled searches

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {ms} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.scheduler.avg.run.time

Gauge tracking the average runtime of scheduled searches

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {ms} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.scheduler.completion.ratio

Gauge tracking the ratio of completed to skipped scheduled searches

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.typing.queue.ratio

Gauge tracking the average indexer typing queue ration (%). *Note:** Search is best run against a Cluster Manager.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {%} | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

## Optional Metrics

The following metrics are not emitted by default. Each of them can be enabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: true
```

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.bucket.count

Count of buckets per index

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {buckets} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.bucket.event.count

Count of events in this bucket super-directory. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint`.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {events} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |
| splunk.bucket.dir | The bucket super-directory (home, cold, thawed) for each index | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.bucket.hot.count

(If size > 0) Number of hot buckets. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint`.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {buckets} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |
| splunk.bucket.dir | The bucket super-directory (home, cold, thawed) for each index | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.bucket.warm.count

(If size > 0) Number of warm buckets. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {buckets} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |
| splunk.bucket.dir | The bucket super-directory (home, cold, thawed) for each index | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.event.count

Count of events for index, excluding frozen events. Approximately equal to the event_count sum of all buckets. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {events} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.raw.size

Size in bytes on disk of the <bucket>/rawdata/ directories of all buckets in this index, excluding frozen *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.data.indexes.extended.total.size

Size in bytes on disk of this index *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.index.name | The name of the index reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.indexer.throughput

Gauge tracking average bytes per second throughput of indexer. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By/s | Gauge | Double |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.indexer.status | The status message reported for a specific object | Any Str |

### splunk.kvstore.backup.status

Backup and restore status of the KV store.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {status} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.kvstore.status.value | The string value of the status returned when reporting on KV store using the introspection endpoint | Any Str |

### splunk.kvstore.replication.status

Replication status of the KV store.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {status} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.kvstore.status.value | The string value of the status returned when reporting on KV store using the introspection endpoint | Any Str |

### splunk.kvstore.status

This is the overall status of the kvstore for the given deployment.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {status} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.kvstore.storage.engine | The backend storage used by the KV store | Any Str |
| splunk.kvstore.external | Value denoting if the KV store is using an external service | Any Str |
| splunk.kvstore.status.value | The string value of the status returned when reporting on KV store using the introspection endpoint | Any Str |

### splunk.server.introspection.queues.current

Gauge tracking current length of queue. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {queues} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.queue.name | The name of the queue reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.server.introspection.queues.current.bytes

Gauge tracking current bytes waiting in queue. *Note:** Must be pointed at specific indexer `endpoint` and gathers metrics from only that indexer.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| By | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.queue.name | The name of the queue reporting a specific KPI | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.adhoc

Gauge tracking number of ad hoc search artifacts currently on disk. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.completed

Gauge tracking number of artifacts currently on disk that belong to finished searches. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.incomplete

Gauge tracking number of artifacts currently on disk that belong to unfinished/running searches. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.invalid

Gauge tracking number of artifacts currently on disk that are not in a valid state, such as missing info.csv file, etc. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.job.cache.count

Gauge tracking number search artifacts metadata stored in memory, available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.job.cache.size

Gauge tracking, in megabytes, memory used to cache job status and job info of all search artifacts, available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {mb} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |
| splunk.searchartifacts.cache.type | The search artifacts cache type | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.savedsearches

Gauge tracking, for the `splunk.server.searchartifacts.scheduled` number of scheduled search artifacts, how many different saved-searches they belong to. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |

### splunk.server.searchartifacts.scheduled

Gauge tracking number of scheduled search artifacts currently on disk. Note:* Must be pointed at specific Search Head endpoint and gathers metrics from only that Search Head. Available in builds 9.1.2312.207+ and 9.3.x+.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| {search_artifacts} | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| splunk.host | The name of the splunk host | Any Str |
