receiver/journaldreceiver/README.md, before:

## `Journald Receiver`

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq], [splunk], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fjournald%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fjournald) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fjournald%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fjournald) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@sumo-drosiek](https://www.github.com/sumo-drosiek), [@djaglowski](https://www.github.com/djaglowski) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Parses Journald events from systemd journal.
Journald receiver requires that:

- the `journalctl` binary is present in the $PATH of the agent; and
- the collector's user has sufficient permissions to access the journal through `journalctl`.

## Configuration

| Field                               | Default                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `directory`                         | `/run/log/journal` or `/run/journal` | A directory containing journal files to read entries from                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `files`                             |                                      | A list of journal files to read entries from                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `start_at`                          | `end`                                | At startup, where to start reading logs from the file. Options are beginning or end                                                                                                                                                      |
| `units`                             |                                      | A list of units to read entries from. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples.                                                                                                                            |
| `matches`                           |                                      | A list of matches to read entries from. See [Matches](#matches) and [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples.                                                                                                  |
| `priority`                          | `info`                               | Filter output by message priorities or priority ranges. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples.                                                                                                          |
| `grep`                              |                                      | Filter output to entries where the MESSAGE= field matches the specified regular expression. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples.                                                                      |
| `storage`                           | none                                 | The ID of a storage extension to be used to store cursors. Cursors allow the receiver to pick up where it left off in the case of a collector restart. If no storage extension is used, the receiver will manage cursors in memory only. |
| `retry_on_failure.enabled`          | `false`                              | If `true`, the receiver will pause reading a file and attempt to resend the current batch of logs if it encounters an error from downstream components.                                                                                  |
| `retry_on_failure.initial_interval` | `1 second`                           | Time to wait after the first failure before retrying.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `retry_on_failure.max_interval`     | `30 seconds`                         | Upper bound on retry backoff interval. Once this value is reached the delay between consecutive retries will remain constant at the specified value.                                                                                     |
| `retry_on_failure.max_elapsed_time` | `5 minutes`                          | Maximum amount of time (including retries) spent trying to send a logs batch to a downstream consumer. Once this value is reached, the data is discarded. Retrying never stops if set to `0`.                                            |
| `operators`                         | []                                   | An array of [operators](../../pkg/stanza/docs/operators/README.md#what-operators-are-available). See below for more details                                                                                                              |

### Operators

Each operator performs a simple responsibility, such as parsing a timestamp or JSON. Chain together operators to process logs into a desired format.

- Every operator has a `type`.
- Every operator can be given a unique `id`. If you use the same type of operator more than once in a pipeline, you must specify an `id`. Otherwise, the `id` defaults to the value of `type`.
- Operators will output to the next operator in the pipeline. The last operator in the pipeline will emit from the receiver. Optionally, the `output` parameter can be used to specify the `id` of another operator to which logs will be passed directly.
- Only parsers and general purpose operators should be used.

### Example Configurations

```yaml
receivers:
  journald:
    directory: /run/log/journal
    units:
      - ssh
      - kubelet
      - docker
      - containerd
    priority: info
```

#### Matches

The following configuration:

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  matches:
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: ssh
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: kubelet
      _UID: "1000"
```

will be passed to `journalctl` as the following arguments: `journalctl ... _SYSTEMD_UNIT=ssh + _SYSTEMD_UNIT=kubelet _UID=1000`,
which is going to retrieve all entries which match at least one of the following rules:

- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `ssh`
- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` and `_UID` is `1000`

#### Multiple filtering options

In case of using multiple following options, conditions between them are logically `AND`ed and within them are logically `OR`ed:

```text
( priority )
AND
( units[0] OR units[1] OR units[2] OR ... units[U] )
AND
( matches[0] OR matches[1] OR matches[2] OR ... matches[M] )
AND
( grep )
```

Consider the following example:

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  matches:
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: ssh
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: kubelet
      _UID: "1000"
  units:
    - kubelet
    - systemd
  priority: info
```

The above configuration will be passed to `journalctl` as the following arguments
`journalctl ... --priority=info --unit=kubelet --unit=systemd _SYSTEMD_UNIT=ssh + _SYSTEMD_UNIT=kubelet _UID=1000`,
which is going to effectively retrieve all entries which matches the following set of rules:

- `_PRIORITY` is `6`, and
- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` or `systemd`, and
- entry matches at least one of the following rules:

  - `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `ssh`
  - `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` and `_UID` is `1000`

## Setup and deployment

The user running the collector must have enough permissions to access the journal; not granting them will lead to issues.

When running in a containerized environment, differences in the systemd version running on the host and on the container may prevent access to logs due to different features and configurations (e.g. zstd compression, keyed hash etc).

### Docker

When running otelcol in a container, note that:

1. the container must run as a user that has permission to access the logs
2. the path to the log directory (`/run/log/journal`, `/var/log/journal`...) must be mounted in the container
3. depending on your guest system, you might need to explicitly set the log directory in the configuration

Please note that *the official otelcol images do not contain the journald binary*; you will need to create your custom image or find one that does.

### Linux packaging

When installing otelcol as a linux package, you will most likely need to add the `otelcol-contrib` or `otel` user to the `systemd-journal` group. The exact user and group might vary depending on your package and linux distribution of choice.

You can test if the user has sufficient permissions by running something like (you might need to adjust according to available shell and opentelemetry user)

```sh
sudo su -s /bin/bash -c 'journalctl --lines 5' otelcol-contrib
```

if the permissions are set correctly you will see some logs, otherwise a clear error message.

### Kubernetes

See the instructions for [Docker](#Docker) and adapt according to your Kubernetes distribution and node OS.

Commit message:

[receiver/journald]: add support for dmesg (#25910)
Adds support for `--dmesg` to journaldreceiver

receiver/journaldreceiver/README.md, after:

## `Journald Receiver`

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq], [splunk], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fjournald%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fjournald) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fjournald%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fjournald) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@sumo-drosiek](https://www.github.com/sumo-drosiek), [@djaglowski](https://www.github.com/djaglowski) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[splunk]: https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Parses Journald events from systemd journal.
Journald receiver requires that:

- the `journalctl` binary is present in the $PATH of the agent; and
- the collector's user has sufficient permissions to access the journal through `journalctl`.

## Configuration

| Field                               | Default                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `directory`                         | `/run/log/journal` or `/run/journal` | A directory containing journal files to read entries from                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `files`                             |                                      | A list of journal files to read entries from                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `start_at`                          | `end`                                | At startup, where to start reading logs from the file. Options are beginning or end                                                                                                                                                      |
| `units`                             |                                      | A list of units to read entries from. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples.                                                                                                                            |
| `matches`                           |                                      | A list of matches to read entries from. See [Matches](#matches) and [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples.                                                                                                  |
| `priority`                          | `info`                               | Filter output by message priorities or priority ranges. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples.                                                                                                          |
| `grep`                              |                                      | Filter output to entries where the MESSAGE= field matches the specified regular expression. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples.                                                                      |
| `dmesg`                             | 'false'                              | Show only kernel messages. This shows logs from current boot and adds the match `_TRANSPORT=kernel`. See [Multiple filtering options](#multiple-filtering-options) examples.                                                             |
| `storage`                           | none                                 | The ID of a storage extension to be used to store cursors. Cursors allow the receiver to pick up where it left off in the case of a collector restart. If no storage extension is used, the receiver will manage cursors in memory only. |
| `retry_on_failure.enabled`          | `false`                              | If `true`, the receiver will pause reading a file and attempt to resend the current batch of logs if it encounters an error from downstream components.                                                                                  |
| `retry_on_failure.initial_interval` | `1 second`                           | Time to wait after the first failure before retrying.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `retry_on_failure.max_interval`     | `30 seconds`                         | Upper bound on retry backoff interval. Once this value is reached the delay between consecutive retries will remain constant at the specified value.                                                                                     |
| `retry_on_failure.max_elapsed_time` | `5 minutes`                          | Maximum amount of time (including retries) spent trying to send a logs batch to a downstream consumer. Once this value is reached, the data is discarded. Retrying never stops if set to `0`.                                            |
| `operators`                         | []                                   | An array of [operators](../../pkg/stanza/docs/operators/README.md#what-operators-are-available). See below for more details                                                                                                              |

### Operators

Each operator performs a simple responsibility, such as parsing a timestamp or JSON. Chain together operators to process logs into a desired format.

- Every operator has a `type`.
- Every operator can be given a unique `id`. If you use the same type of operator more than once in a pipeline, you must specify an `id`. Otherwise, the `id` defaults to the value of `type`.
- Operators will output to the next operator in the pipeline. The last operator in the pipeline will emit from the receiver. Optionally, the `output` parameter can be used to specify the `id` of another operator to which logs will be passed directly.
- Only parsers and general purpose operators should be used.

### Example Configurations

```yaml
receivers:
  journald:
    directory: /run/log/journal
    units:
      - ssh
      - kubelet
      - docker
      - containerd
    priority: info
```

#### Matches

The following configuration:

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  matches:
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: ssh
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: kubelet
      _UID: "1000"
```

will be passed to `journalctl` as the following arguments: `journalctl ... _SYSTEMD_UNIT=ssh + _SYSTEMD_UNIT=kubelet _UID=1000`,
which is going to retrieve all entries which match at least one of the following rules:

- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `ssh`
- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` and `_UID` is `1000`

#### Multiple filtering options

In case of using multiple following options, conditions between them are logically `AND`ed and within them are logically `OR`ed:

```text
( dmesg )
AND
( priority )
AND
( units[0] OR units[1] OR units[2] OR ... units[U] )
AND
( matches[0] OR matches[1] OR matches[2] OR ... matches[M] )
AND
( grep )
```

Consider the following example:

```yaml
- type: journald_input
  matches:
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: ssh
    - _SYSTEMD_UNIT: kubelet
      _UID: "1000"
  units:
    - kubelet
    - systemd
  priority: info
```

The above configuration will be passed to `journalctl` as the following arguments
`journalctl ... --priority=info --unit=kubelet --unit=systemd _SYSTEMD_UNIT=ssh + _SYSTEMD_UNIT=kubelet _UID=1000`,
which is going to effectively retrieve all entries which matches the following set of rules:

- `_PRIORITY` is `6`, and
- `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` or `systemd`, and
- entry matches at least one of the following rules:

  - `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `ssh`
  - `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` is `kubelet` and `_UID` is `1000`

## Setup and deployment

The user running the collector must have enough permissions to access the journal; not granting them will lead to issues.

When running in a containerized environment, differences in the systemd version running on the host and on the container may prevent access to logs due to different features and configurations (e.g. zstd compression, keyed hash etc).

### Docker

When running otelcol in a container, note that:

1. the container must run as a user that has permission to access the logs
2. the path to the log directory (`/run/log/journal`, `/var/log/journal`...) must be mounted in the container
3. depending on your guest system, you might need to explicitly set the log directory in the configuration

Please note that *the official otelcol images do not contain the journald binary*; you will need to create your custom image or find one that does.

### Linux packaging

When installing otelcol as a linux package, you will most likely need to add the `otelcol-contrib` or `otel` user to the `systemd-journal` group. The exact user and group might vary depending on your package and linux distribution of choice.

You can test if the user has sufficient permissions by running something like (you might need to adjust according to available shell and opentelemetry user)

```sh
sudo su -s /bin/bash -c 'journalctl --lines 5' otelcol-contrib
```

if the permissions are set correctly you will see some logs, otherwise a clear error message.

### Kubernetes

See the instructions for [Docker](#Docker) and adapt according to your Kubernetes distribution and node OS.
