# AWS X-Ray Tracing Exporter for OpenTelemetry Collector

This exporter converts OpenTelemetry spans to 
[AWS X-Ray Segment Documents](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-api-segmentdocuments.html)
and then sends them directly to X-Ray using the 
[PutTraceSegements](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/api/API_PutTraceSegments.html) API.

## Data Conversion

Trace IDs and Span IDs are expected to be originally generated by either AWS API Gateway or AWS ALB and 
propagated by them using the `X-Amzn-Trace-Id` HTTP header. However, other generation sources are 
supported by replacing Trace IDs where necessary. For consistency, you may want to consider using the
X-Ray approach if generating Trace IDs within the application.

> AWS X-Ray IDs are the same size as W3C Trace Context IDs but differ in that the first 32 bits of a Trace ID 
> is the Unix epoch time when the trace was started. Since X-Ray only allows submission of Trace IDs from the 
> past 30 days, received Trace IDs are checked. If outside the allowed range, a replacement is generated using 
> the current time.

The `http` object is populated when the `component` attribute value is `grpc` as well as `http`. Other
synchronous call types should also result in the `http` object being populated.

## AWS Specific Attributes

The following AWS-specific Span attributes are supported in addition to the standard names and values
defined in the OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions.

| Attribute name   | Notes and examples                                                     | Required? |
| :--------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `aws.operation`  | The name of the API action invoked against an AWS service or resource. | No        |
| `aws.account_id` | The AWS account number if accessing resource in different account.     | No        |
| `aws.region`     | The AWS region if accessing resource in different region from app.     | No        |
| `aws.request_id` | AWS-generated unique identifier for the request.                       | No        |
| `aws.queue_url`  | For operations on an Amazon SQS queue, the queue's URL.                | No        |
| `aws.table_name` | For operations on a DynamoDB table, the name of the table.             | No        |

Any of these values supplied are used to populate the `aws` object in addition to any relevant data supplied
by the Span Resource object. X-Ray uses this data to generate inferred segments for the remote APIs.

## Exporter Configuration

