extension/cgroupruntimeextension/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to the Cgroup Go runtime extension

In order to contribute to this extension, it might be useful to have a working local setup.

## Testing

To run the integration tests locally for this extension, you can follow theses steps in a Linux environment.

Inside the extension folder, start a privileged docker container and share the code with the container

```bash
cd extension/cgroupruntimeextension
docker run -ti --privileged --cgroupns=host -v $(pwd):/workspace -w /workspace debian:bookworm-slim
```

Install the [Go version](https://go.dev/dl/) specified in the extension's [go.mod](./go.mod) and the GCC compiler to run the integration test. The following is an example command for Go `1.23.4` in and `amd64` system:

```bash
apt update && apt install -y wget sudo gcc && wget https://go.dev/dl/go1.23.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz && tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.23.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz && export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin && go version && rm go1.23.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

Run the integration test

```bash
CGO_ENABLED=1 go test -v -exec sudo -race -timeout 360s -parallel 4 -tags=integration,""
```

Commit message:

Notice for Linux systemd cgroupv2

extension/cgroupruntimeextension/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to the Cgroup Go runtime extension

In order to contribute to this extension, it might be useful to have a working local setup.

## Testing

Some Linux distributions don't run systemd under cgroupv2, to run the integration tests locally for this extension you can follow these steps.

Inside the extension folder, start a privileged docker container and share the code with the container

```bash
cd extension/cgroupruntimeextension
docker run -ti --privileged --cgroupns=host -v $(pwd):/workspace -w /workspace debian:bookworm-slim
```

Install the [Go version](https://go.dev/dl/) specified in the extension's [go.mod](./go.mod) and the GCC compiler to run the integration test. The following is an example command for Go `1.23.4` in and `amd64` system:

```bash
apt update && apt install -y wget sudo gcc && wget https://go.dev/dl/go1.23.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz && tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.23.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz && export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin && go version && rm go1.23.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

Run the integration test

```bash
CGO_ENABLED=1 go test -v -exec sudo -race -timeout 360s -parallel 4 -tags=integration,""
```
