receiver/kafkareceiver/README.md, before:

# Kafka Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics, logs, traces   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fkafka%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fkafka) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fkafka%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fkafka) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@pavolloffay](https://www.github.com/pavolloffay), [@MovieStoreGuy](https://www.github.com/MovieStoreGuy) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Kafka receiver receives traces, metrics, and logs from Kafka. Message payload encoding is configurable.

Note that metrics and logs only support OTLP.

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `protocol_version` (no default): Kafka protocol version e.g. 2.0.0

The following settings can be optionally configured:

- `brokers` (default = localhost:9092): The list of kafka brokers
- `resolve_canonical_bootstrap_servers_only` (default = false): Whether to resolve then reverse-lookup broker IPs during startup
- `topic` (default = otlp_spans for traces, otlp_metrics for metrics, otlp_logs for logs): The name of the kafka topic to read from.
  Only one telemetry type may be used for a given topic.
- `encoding` (default = otlp_proto): The encoding of the payload received from kafka. Supports encoding extensions. Tries to load an encoding extension and falls back to internal encodings if no extension was loaded. Available internal encodings:
  - `otlp_proto`: the payload is deserialized to `ExportTraceServiceRequest`, `ExportLogsServiceRequest` or `ExportMetricsServiceRequest` respectively.
  - `otlp_json`: the payload is deserialized to `ExportTraceServiceRequest` `ExportLogsServiceRequest` or `ExportMetricsServiceRequest` respectively using JSON encoding.
  - `jaeger_proto`: the payload is deserialized to a single Jaeger proto `Span`.
  - `jaeger_json`: the payload is deserialized to a single Jaeger JSON Span using `jsonpb`.
  - `zipkin_proto`: the payload is deserialized into a list of Zipkin proto spans.
  - `zipkin_json`: the payload is deserialized into a list of Zipkin V2 JSON spans.
  - `zipkin_thrift`: the payload is deserialized into a list of Zipkin Thrift spans.
  - `raw`: (logs only) the payload's bytes are inserted as the body of a log record.
  - `text`: (logs only) the payload are decoded as text and inserted as the body of a log record. By default, it uses UTF-8 to decode. You can use `text_<ENCODING>`, like `text_utf-8`, `text_shift_jis`, etc., to customize this behavior.
  - `json`: (logs only) the payload is decoded as JSON and inserted as the body of a log record.
  - `azure_resource_logs`: (logs only) the payload is converted from Azure Resource Logs format to OTel format.
- `group_id` (default = otel-collector): The consumer group that receiver will be consuming messages from
- `client_id` (default = otel-collector): The consumer client ID that receiver will use
- `initial_offset` (default = latest): The initial offset to use if no offset was previously committed. Must be `latest` or `earliest`.
- `session_timeout` (default = `10s`): The request timeout for detecting client failures when using Kafka’s group management facilities.
- `heartbeat_interval` (default = `3s`): The expected time between heartbeats to the consumer coordinator when using Kafka’s group management facilities.
- `min_fetch_size` (default = `1`): The minimum number of message bytes to fetch in a request, defaults to 1 byte.
- `default_fetch_size` (default = `1048576`): The default number of message bytes to fetch in a request, defaults to 1MB.
- `max_fetch_size` (default = `0`): The maximum number of message bytes to fetch in a request, defaults to unlimited.
- `auth`
  - `plain_text`
    - `username`: The username to use.
    - `password`: The password to use
  - `sasl`
    - `username`: The username to use.
    - `password`: The password to use
    - `mechanism`: The sasl mechanism to use (SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512, AWS_MSK_IAM, AWS_MSK_IAM_OAUTHBEARER or PLAIN)
    - `aws_msk.region`: AWS Region in case of AWS_MSK_IAM or AWS_MSK_IAM_OAUTHBEARER mechanism
    - `aws_msk.broker_addr`: MSK Broker address in case of AWS_MSK_IAM mechanism
  - `tls`
    - `ca_file`: path to the CA cert. For a client this verifies the server certificate. Should
      only be used if `insecure` is set to false.
    - `cert_file`: path to the TLS cert to use for TLS required connections. Should
      only be used if `insecure` is set to false.
    - `key_file`: path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections. Should
      only be used if `insecure` is set to false.
    - `insecure` (default = false): Disable verifying the server's certificate
      chain and host name (`InsecureSkipVerify` in the tls config)
    - `server_name_override`: ServerName indicates the name of the server requested by the client
      in order to support virtual hosting.
  - `kerberos`
    - `service_name`: Kerberos service name
    - `realm`: Kerberos realm
    - `use_keytab`: Use of keytab instead of password, if this is true, keytab file will be used instead of password
    - `username`: The Kerberos username used for authenticate with KDC
    - `password`: The Kerberos password used for authenticate with KDC
    - `config_file`: Path to Kerberos configuration. i.e /etc/krb5.conf
    - `keytab_file`: Path to keytab file. i.e /etc/security/kafka.keytab
    - `disable_fast_negotiation`: Disable PA-FX-FAST negotiation (Pre-Authentication Framework - Fast). Some common Kerberos implementations do not support PA-FX-FAST negotiation. This is set to `false` by default.
- `metadata`
  - `full` (default = true): Whether to maintain a full set of metadata. When
    disabled, the client does not make the initial request to broker at the
    startup.
  - `retry`
    - `max` (default = 3): The number of retries to get metadata
    - `backoff` (default = 250ms): How long to wait between metadata retries
- `autocommit`
  - `enable`: (default = true) Whether or not to auto-commit updated offsets back to the broker
  - `interval`: (default = 1s) How frequently to commit updated offsets. Ineffective unless auto-commit is enabled
- `message_marking`:
  - `after`: (default = false) If true, the messages are marked after the pipeline execution
  - `on_error`: (default = false) If false, only the successfully processed messages are marked
    **Note: this can block the entire partition in case a message processing returns a permanent error**
- `header_extraction`:
  - `extract_headers` (default = false): Allows user to attach header fields to resource attributes in otel piepline
  - `headers` (default = []): List of headers they'd like to extract from kafka record. 
  **Note: Matching pattern will be `exact`. Regexes are not supported as of now.** 

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  kafka:
    protocol_version: 2.0.0
```
Example of connecting to kafka using sasl and TLS:

```yaml
receivers:
  kafka:
    auth:
      sasl:
        username: "user"
        password: "secret"
        mechanism: "SCRAM-SHA-512"
      tls:
        insecure: false
```
Example of header extraction:

```yaml
receivers:
  kafka:
    topic: test
    header_extraction: 
      extract_headers: true
      headers: ["header1", "header2"]
```

- If we feed following kafka record to `test` topic and use above configs: 
```yaml
{
  event: Hello,
  headers: {
    header1: value1,
    header2: value2,
  }
}
```
we will get a log record in collector similar to: 
```yaml
{
  ...
  body: Hello,
  resource: {
    kafka.header.header1: value1,
    kafka.header.header2: value2,
  },
  ...
}
```

- Here you can see the kafka record header `header1` and `header2` being added to resource attribute.
- Every **matching** kafka header key is prefixed with `kafka.header` string and attached to resource attributes.

Commit message:

handle backoff stop, add documentation

receiver/kafkareceiver/README.md, after:

# Kafka Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics, logs, traces   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fkafka%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fkafka) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fkafka%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fkafka) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@pavolloffay](https://www.github.com/pavolloffay), [@MovieStoreGuy](https://www.github.com/MovieStoreGuy) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Kafka receiver receives traces, metrics, and logs from Kafka. Message payload encoding is configurable.

Note that metrics and logs only support OTLP.

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `protocol_version` (no default): Kafka protocol version e.g. 2.0.0

The following settings can be optionally configured:

- `brokers` (default = localhost:9092): The list of kafka brokers
- `resolve_canonical_bootstrap_servers_only` (default = false): Whether to resolve then reverse-lookup broker IPs during startup
- `topic` (default = otlp_spans for traces, otlp_metrics for metrics, otlp_logs for logs): The name of the kafka topic to read from.
  Only one telemetry type may be used for a given topic.
- `encoding` (default = otlp_proto): The encoding of the payload received from kafka. Supports encoding extensions. Tries to load an encoding extension and falls back to internal encodings if no extension was loaded. Available internal encodings:
  - `otlp_proto`: the payload is deserialized to `ExportTraceServiceRequest`, `ExportLogsServiceRequest` or `ExportMetricsServiceRequest` respectively.
  - `otlp_json`: the payload is deserialized to `ExportTraceServiceRequest` `ExportLogsServiceRequest` or `ExportMetricsServiceRequest` respectively using JSON encoding.
  - `jaeger_proto`: the payload is deserialized to a single Jaeger proto `Span`.
  - `jaeger_json`: the payload is deserialized to a single Jaeger JSON Span using `jsonpb`.
  - `zipkin_proto`: the payload is deserialized into a list of Zipkin proto spans.
  - `zipkin_json`: the payload is deserialized into a list of Zipkin V2 JSON spans.
  - `zipkin_thrift`: the payload is deserialized into a list of Zipkin Thrift spans.
  - `raw`: (logs only) the payload's bytes are inserted as the body of a log record.
  - `text`: (logs only) the payload are decoded as text and inserted as the body of a log record. By default, it uses UTF-8 to decode. You can use `text_<ENCODING>`, like `text_utf-8`, `text_shift_jis`, etc., to customize this behavior.
  - `json`: (logs only) the payload is decoded as JSON and inserted as the body of a log record.
  - `azure_resource_logs`: (logs only) the payload is converted from Azure Resource Logs format to OTel format.
- `group_id` (default = otel-collector): The consumer group that receiver will be consuming messages from
- `client_id` (default = otel-collector): The consumer client ID that receiver will use
- `initial_offset` (default = latest): The initial offset to use if no offset was previously committed. Must be `latest` or `earliest`.
- `session_timeout` (default = `10s`): The request timeout for detecting client failures when using Kafka’s group management facilities.
- `heartbeat_interval` (default = `3s`): The expected time between heartbeats to the consumer coordinator when using Kafka’s group management facilities.
- `min_fetch_size` (default = `1`): The minimum number of message bytes to fetch in a request, defaults to 1 byte.
- `default_fetch_size` (default = `1048576`): The default number of message bytes to fetch in a request, defaults to 1MB.
- `max_fetch_size` (default = `0`): The maximum number of message bytes to fetch in a request, defaults to unlimited.
- `auth`
  - `plain_text`
    - `username`: The username to use.
    - `password`: The password to use
  - `sasl`
    - `username`: The username to use.
    - `password`: The password to use
    - `mechanism`: The sasl mechanism to use (SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512, AWS_MSK_IAM, AWS_MSK_IAM_OAUTHBEARER or PLAIN)
    - `aws_msk.region`: AWS Region in case of AWS_MSK_IAM or AWS_MSK_IAM_OAUTHBEARER mechanism
    - `aws_msk.broker_addr`: MSK Broker address in case of AWS_MSK_IAM mechanism
  - `tls`
    - `ca_file`: path to the CA cert. For a client this verifies the server certificate. Should
      only be used if `insecure` is set to false.
    - `cert_file`: path to the TLS cert to use for TLS required connections. Should
      only be used if `insecure` is set to false.
    - `key_file`: path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections. Should
      only be used if `insecure` is set to false.
    - `insecure` (default = false): Disable verifying the server's certificate
      chain and host name (`InsecureSkipVerify` in the tls config)
    - `server_name_override`: ServerName indicates the name of the server requested by the client
      in order to support virtual hosting.
  - `kerberos`
    - `service_name`: Kerberos service name
    - `realm`: Kerberos realm
    - `use_keytab`: Use of keytab instead of password, if this is true, keytab file will be used instead of password
    - `username`: The Kerberos username used for authenticate with KDC
    - `password`: The Kerberos password used for authenticate with KDC
    - `config_file`: Path to Kerberos configuration. i.e /etc/krb5.conf
    - `keytab_file`: Path to keytab file. i.e /etc/security/kafka.keytab
    - `disable_fast_negotiation`: Disable PA-FX-FAST negotiation (Pre-Authentication Framework - Fast). Some common Kerberos implementations do not support PA-FX-FAST negotiation. This is set to `false` by default.
- `metadata`
  - `full` (default = true): Whether to maintain a full set of metadata. When
    disabled, the client does not make the initial request to broker at the
    startup.
  - `retry`
    - `max` (default = 3): The number of retries to get metadata
    - `backoff` (default = 250ms): How long to wait between metadata retries
- `autocommit`
  - `enable`: (default = true) Whether or not to auto-commit updated offsets back to the broker
  - `interval`: (default = 1s) How frequently to commit updated offsets. Ineffective unless auto-commit is enabled
- `message_marking`:
  - `after`: (default = false) If true, the messages are marked after the pipeline execution
  - `on_error`: (default = false) If false, only the successfully processed messages are marked
    **Note: this can block the entire partition in case a message processing returns a permanent error**
- `header_extraction`:
  - `extract_headers` (default = false): Allows user to attach header fields to resource attributes in otel piepline
  - `headers` (default = []): List of headers they'd like to extract from kafka record. 
  **Note: Matching pattern will be `exact`. Regexes are not supported as of now.** 
- `error_backoff`:
  - `enabled`: (default = false) Whether to enable backoff when next consumers return errors 
  - `initial_interval`: The time to wait after the first error before consuming the next message
  - `max_interval`: The upper bound on backoff interval between consecutive message consumption
  - `multiplier`: The value multiplied by the backoff interval bounds
  - `randomization_factor`: A random factor used to calculate next backoff. Randomized interval = RetryInterval * (1 ± RandomizationFactor)
  - `max_elapsed_time`: The maximum time trying to backoff before giving up. If set to 0, the backoff is never stopped.
Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  kafka:
    protocol_version: 2.0.0
```
Example of connecting to kafka using sasl and TLS:

```yaml
receivers:
  kafka:
    auth:
      sasl:
        username: "user"
        password: "secret"
        mechanism: "SCRAM-SHA-512"
      tls:
        insecure: false
```
Example of header extraction:

```yaml
receivers:
  kafka:
    topic: test
    header_extraction: 
      extract_headers: true
      headers: ["header1", "header2"]
```

- If we feed following kafka record to `test` topic and use above configs: 
```yaml
{
  event: Hello,
  headers: {
    header1: value1,
    header2: value2,
  }
}
```
we will get a log record in collector similar to: 
```yaml
{
  ...
  body: Hello,
  resource: {
    kafka.header.header1: value1,
    kafka.header.header2: value2,
  },
  ...
}
```

- Here you can see the kafka record header `header1` and `header2` being added to resource attribute.
- Every **matching** kafka header key is prefixed with `kafka.header` string and attached to resource attributes.
