exporter/lokiexporter/README.md, before:

# Loki Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Floki%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Floki) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Floki%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Floki) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@gramidt](https://www.github.com/gramidt), [@gouthamve](https://www.github.com/gouthamve), [@jpkrohling](https://www.github.com/jpkrohling), [@mar4uk](https://www.github.com/mar4uk) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->
Exports data via HTTP to [Loki](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/).

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (no default): The target URL to send Loki log streams to (e.g.: `http://loki:3100/loki/api/v1/push`).

Example:
```yaml
exporters:
  loki:
    endpoint: https://loki.example.com:3100/loki/api/v1/push
```

## Configuration via attribute hints

### Labels
The Loki exporter can convert OTLP resource and log attributes into Loki labels, which are indexed. For that, you need to configure
hints, specifying which attributes should be placed as labels. The hints are themselves attributes and will be ignored when
exporting to Loki. The following example uses the `attributes` processor to hint the Loki exporter to set the `event.domain`
attribute as label and the `resource` processor to give a hint to the Loki exporter to set the `service.name` as label.

```yaml
processors:
  attributes:
    actions:
      - action: insert
        key: loki.attribute.labels
        value: event.domain

  resource:
    attributes:
      - action: insert
        key: loki.resource.labels
        value: service.name
```

Currently, Loki does not support label names with dots. 
That's why lokiexporter normalizes label names to follow Prometheus label names standard before sending requests to Loki.
More information on label normalization could be found [here](../../pkg/translator/prometheus/README.md#Labels)

The promotion of multiple resource and log attributes to labels is done with single action with comma-separated desired labels:
```yaml
processors:
  attributes:
    actions:
      - action: insert
        key: loki.attribute.labels
        value: event.domain, event.name

  resource:
    attributes:
      - action: insert
        key: loki.resource.labels
        value: service.name, service.namespace
```

Default labels:
- `job=service.namespace/service.name`
- `instance=service.instance.id`
- `exporter=OTLP`

`exporter=OTLP` is always set.

If `service.name` and `service.namespace` are present then `job=service.namespace/service.name` is set

If `service.name` is present and `service.namespace` is not present then `job=service.name` is set

If `service.name` is not present and `service.namespace` is present then `job` label is not set

If `service.instance.id` is present then `instance=service.instance.id` is set

If `service.instance.id` is not present then `instance` label is not set

The full list of settings exposed for this exporter are documented [here](./config.go) with detailed sample
configurations [here](./testdata/config.yaml).

More information on how to send logs to Grafana Loki using the OpenTelemetry Collector could be found [here](https://grafana.com/docs/opentelemetry/collector/send-logs-to-loki/)

### Tenant information

It is recommended to use the [`header_setter`](../../extension/headerssetterextension/README.md) extension to configure the tenant information to send to Loki. In case a static tenant
should be used, you can make use of the `headers` option for regular HTTP client settings, like the following:

```yaml
exporters:
  loki:
    endpoint: http://localhost:3100/loki/api/v1/push
    headers:
      "X-Scope-OrgID": acme
```

It is also possible to provide the `loki.tenant` attribute hint that specifies
which resource or log attributes value should be used as a tenant. For example:

```yaml
processors:
  resource:
    attributes:
    - action: insert
      key: loki.tenant
      value: host.name
```

In this case the value of the `host.name` resource attribute is used to group logs
by tenant and send requests with the `X-Scope-OrgID` header set to relevant tenants.

If the `loki.tenant` hint attribute is present in both resource and log attributes,
then the look-up for a tenant value from resource attributes takes precedence.

### Format
To choose the format used for writing log lines by the exporter use the `loki.format` hint. For example:

```yaml
processors:
  resource:
    attributes:
    - action: insert
      key: loki.format
      value: logfmt
```

The following formats are supported:

- `logfmt`: Write logs as [logfmt](https://brandur.org/logfmt) lines.
- `json`: Write logs as JSON objects. It is the default format if no hint is present.
- `raw`: Write the body of the log message as string representation.

## Severity

OpenTelemetry uses `record.severity` to track log levels where loki uses `record.attributes.level` for the same. The exporter automatically maps the two, except if a "level" attribute already exists.

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md)
- [Queuing and retry settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)

Commit message:

[exporter/loki] Add setting default_labels_enabled to the config (#23863)
**Description:** <Describe what has changed.>
Added new setting `default_labels_enabled` into the loki exporter
config.
When this setting is passed loki exporter will not set default labels if
the setting value is false, for example:

```
loki:
  endpoint: ...
  default_labels_enabled:
    job: true
    instance: false
    exporter: false
    level: false
```
In this example, only the `job` label will be added, `instance`,
`exporter`, and `level` will not be added as Loki labels.

If `default_labels_enabled` is omitted the current behavior will be
applied: default labels will be added (exporter, job, instance, label)
If one of the labels is omitted in `default_labels_enabled` then the
current behavior will be applied: this label will be added

**Link to tracking Issue:**
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/22156

**Testing:** unit tests added

**Documentation:** README updated

exporter/lokiexporter/README.md, after:

# Loki Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Floki%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Floki) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Floki%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Floki) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@gramidt](https://www.github.com/gramidt), [@gouthamve](https://www.github.com/gouthamve), [@jpkrohling](https://www.github.com/jpkrohling), [@mar4uk](https://www.github.com/mar4uk) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->
Exports data via HTTP to [Loki](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/).

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (no default): The target URL to send Loki log streams to (e.g.: `http://loki:3100/loki/api/v1/push`).
- `default_labels_enabled` (optional): The map that allows to disable default labels: `exporter`, `job`, `instance`, `level`. 
If `default_labels_enabled` is omitted then default labels will be added. If one of the labels is omitted in `default_labels_enabled` then this label will be added.
**Important to remember**: 
If all default labels are disabled and there are no other labels added then the log entry would be dropped because at least one label should be present to successfully put the log record into Loki.
The metric `otelcol_lokiexporter_send_failed_due_to_missing_labels` shows how many log records were dropped because no labels were specified 

Example:
```yaml
exporters:
  loki:
    endpoint: https://loki.example.com:3100/loki/api/v1/push
    default_labels_enabled:
      exporter: false
      job: true
```

## Configuration via attribute hints

### Labels
The Loki exporter can convert OTLP resource and log attributes into Loki labels, which are indexed. For that, you need to configure
hints, specifying which attributes should be placed as labels. The hints are themselves attributes and will be ignored when
exporting to Loki. The following example uses the `attributes` processor to hint the Loki exporter to set the `event.domain`
attribute as label and the `resource` processor to give a hint to the Loki exporter to set the `service.name` as label.

```yaml
processors:
  attributes:
    actions:
      - action: insert
        key: loki.attribute.labels
        value: event.domain

  resource:
    attributes:
      - action: insert
        key: loki.resource.labels
        value: service.name
```

Currently, Loki does not support label names with dots. 
That's why lokiexporter normalizes label names to follow Prometheus label names standard before sending requests to Loki.
More information on label normalization could be found [here](../../pkg/translator/prometheus/README.md#Labels)

The promotion of multiple resource and log attributes to labels is done with single action with comma-separated desired labels:
```yaml
processors:
  attributes:
    actions:
      - action: insert
        key: loki.attribute.labels
        value: event.domain, event.name

  resource:
    attributes:
      - action: insert
        key: loki.resource.labels
        value: service.name, service.namespace
```

Default labels are always set unless they are disabled with `default_labels_enabled` setting:
- `job=service.namespace/service.name`
- `instance=service.instance.id`
- `exporter=OTLP`
- `level=severity`

If `service.name` and `service.namespace` are present then `job=service.namespace/service.name` is set

If `service.name` is present and `service.namespace` is not present then `job=service.name` is set

If `service.name` is not present and `service.namespace` is present then `job` label is not set

If `service.instance.id` is present then `instance=service.instance.id` is set

If `service.instance.id` is not present then `instance` label is not set

The full list of settings exposed for this exporter are documented [here](./config.go) with detailed sample
configurations [here](./testdata/config.yaml).

More information on how to send logs to Grafana Loki using the OpenTelemetry Collector could be found [here](https://grafana.com/docs/opentelemetry/collector/send-logs-to-loki/)

### Tenant information

It is recommended to use the [`header_setter`](../../extension/headerssetterextension/README.md) extension to configure the tenant information to send to Loki. In case a static tenant
should be used, you can make use of the `headers` option for regular HTTP client settings, like the following:

```yaml
exporters:
  loki:
    endpoint: http://localhost:3100/loki/api/v1/push
    headers:
      "X-Scope-OrgID": acme
```

It is also possible to provide the `loki.tenant` attribute hint that specifies
which resource or log attributes value should be used as a tenant. For example:

```yaml
processors:
  resource:
    attributes:
    - action: insert
      key: loki.tenant
      value: host.name
```

In this case the value of the `host.name` resource attribute is used to group logs
by tenant and send requests with the `X-Scope-OrgID` header set to relevant tenants.

If the `loki.tenant` hint attribute is present in both resource and log attributes,
then the look-up for a tenant value from resource attributes takes precedence.

### Format
To choose the format used for writing log lines by the exporter use the `loki.format` hint. For example:

```yaml
processors:
  resource:
    attributes:
    - action: insert
      key: loki.format
      value: logfmt
```

The following formats are supported:

- `logfmt`: Write logs as [logfmt](https://brandur.org/logfmt) lines.
- `json`: Write logs as JSON objects. It is the default format if no hint is present.
- `raw`: Write the body of the log message as string representation.

## Severity

OpenTelemetry uses `record.severity` to track log levels where loki uses `record.attributes.level` for the same. The exporter automatically maps the two, except if a "level" attribute already exists.

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md)
- [Queuing and retry settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
