receiver/k8sclusterreceiver/internal/clusterresourcequota/documentation.md, before:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# k8s/clusterresourcequota

**Parent Component:** k8s_cluster

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### openshift.appliedclusterquota.limit

The upper limit for a particular resource in a specific namespace.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

### openshift.appliedclusterquota.used

The usage for a particular resource in a specific namespace.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

### openshift.clusterquota.limit

The configured upper limit for a particular resource.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

### openshift.clusterquota.used

The usage for a particular resource with a configured limit.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| k8s.namespace.name | The k8s namespace name. | Any Str | true |
| opencensus.resourcetype | The OpenCensus resource type. | Any Str | true |
| openshift.clusterquota.name | The k8s ClusterResourceQuota name. | Any Str | true |
| openshift.clusterquota.uid | The k8s ClusterResourceQuota uid. | Any Str | true |

Commit message:

Make changes requested
- resource should be an attribute of the metric, not a resource attribute.
- k8s namespace needs to also be an attribute of the metric and not
a resource attribute
- Remove unecessary extra method
- Update test to match original format of metrics

receiver/k8sclusterreceiver/internal/clusterresourcequota/documentation.md, after:

[comment]: <> (Code generated by mdatagen. DO NOT EDIT.)

# k8s/clusterresourcequota

**Parent Component:** k8s_cluster

## Default Metrics

The following metrics are emitted by default. Each of them can be disabled by applying the following configuration:

```yaml
metrics:
  <metric_name>:
    enabled: false
```

### openshift.appliedclusterquota.limit

The upper limit for a particular resource in a specific namespace.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| k8s.namespace.name | The k8s namespace name. | Any Str |
| resource | The name of the resource on which the cluster quota is applied | Any Str |

### openshift.appliedclusterquota.used

The usage for a particular resource in a specific namespace.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| k8s.namespace.name | The k8s namespace name. | Any Str |
| resource | The name of the resource on which the cluster quota is applied | Any Str |

### openshift.clusterquota.limit

The configured upper limit for a particular resource.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| resource | The name of the resource on which the cluster quota is applied | Any Str |

### openshift.clusterquota.used

The usage for a particular resource with a configured limit.

| Unit | Metric Type | Value Type |
| ---- | ----------- | ---------- |
| 1 | Gauge | Int |

#### Attributes

| Name | Description | Values |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ |
| resource | The name of the resource on which the cluster quota is applied | Any Str |

## Resource Attributes

| Name | Description | Values | Enabled |
| ---- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| opencensus.resourcetype | The OpenCensus resource type. | Any Str | true |
| openshift.clusterquota.name | The k8s ClusterResourceQuota name. | Any Str | true |
| openshift.clusterquota.uid | The k8s ClusterResourceQuota uid. | Any Str | true |
