exporter/bmchelixexporter/README.md, before:

# BMC Helix Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fbmchelix%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fbmchelix) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fbmchelix%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fbmchelix) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@bertysentry](https://www.github.com/bertysentry), [@NassimBtk](https://www.github.com/NassimBtk) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#development
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This exporter supports sending metrics to BMC Helix Operation Management.

## Getting Started

The following settings are **required**:

- `endpoint`: is the URL of your BMC Helix environment, at **onbmc.com** (e.g., `https://company.onbmc.com`).
- `api_key`: API key to authenticate the exporter. Connect to BMC Helix Operations Management, go to the Administration > Repository page, and click on the Copy API Key button to get your API Key.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  bmchelix/helix1:
    endpoint: https://company.onbmc.com
    api_key: <api-key>
```

### Optional Settings

The following settings can be **optionally configured**:

- `timeout`: (default = `10s`) Timeout for requests made to the BMC Helix.
- `retry_on_failure` [details here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/exporterhelper#configuration)
  - `enabled` (default = true)
  - `initial_interval` (default = 5s) Time to wait after the first failure before retrying; ignored if `enabled` is false.
  - `max_interval` (default = 30s) The upper bound on backoff; ignored if `enabled` is false.
  - `max_elapsed_time` (default = 300s) The maximum amount of time spent trying to send a batch; ignored if `enabled` is false. If set to 0, the retries are never stopped.
- `resource_to_telemetry_conversion`: [details here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/resourcetotelemetry#configuration)
  - `enabled` (default = true): If enabled is true, all the resource attributes will be converted to metric labels by default.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  bmchelix/helix2:
    endpoint: https://company.onbmc.com
    api_key: <api-key>
    timeout: 20s
    retry_on_failure:
      enabled: true
      initial_interval: 5s
      max_interval: 1m
      max_elapsed_time: 8m
    resource_to_telemetry_conversion:
      enabled: true
```

### Resource to Telemetry Conversion

To ensure resource attributes (e.g., `host.name`) are available for all metrics, keep `resource_to_telemetry_conversion` enabled by default. Disabling it will remove resource attributes from metrics unless explicitly configured.

---

## Setting Required Attributes for Metrics

To ensure metrics are correctly populated in BMC Helix, the following attributes must be set:  

- `entityName`: Unique identifier for the entity. Used as display name if `instanceName` is missing.
- `entityTypeId`: Type identifier for the entity.
- `instanceName`: Display name of the entity.

> **Note:** If `entityName` or `entityTypeId` is missing, the metric will not be populated.

### Transformer Example for Hardware Metrics

You can use the following OpenTelemetry Transformation Language (OTTL) configuration to map these attributes dynamically:

```yaml
  transform/hw_to_helix:
   # Apply transformations to all metrics
    metric_statements:

      - context: datapoint
        statements:
          # Create a new attribute 'entityName' with the value of 'id'
          - set(attributes["entityName"], attributes["id"]) where attributes["id"] != nil
          # Create a new attribute 'instanceName' with the value of 'name'
          - set(attributes["instanceName"], attributes["name"]) where attributes["name"] != nil

      - context: datapoint
        conditions:
          - IsMatch(metric.name, ".*\\.agent\\..*")
        statements:
          - set(attributes["entityName"], attributes["host.id"]) where attributes["host.id"] != nil
          - set(attributes["instanceName"], attributes["service.name"]) where attributes["service.name"] != nil
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "agent")

      - context: datapoint
        statements:
          # Mapping entityTypeId based on metric names and attributes
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "connector") where IsMatch(metric.name, ".*\\.connector\\..*")
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "host") where IsMatch(metric.name, ".*\\.host\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "host"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "battery") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.battery\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "battery"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "blade") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.blade\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "blade"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "cpu") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.cpu\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "cpu"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "disk_controller") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.disk_controller\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "disk_controller"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "enclosure") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.enclosure\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "enclosure"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "fan") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.fan\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "fan"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "gpu") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.gpu\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "gpu"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "led") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.led\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "led"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "logical_disk") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.logical_disk\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "logical_disk"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "lun") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.lun\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "lun"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "memory") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.memory\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "memory"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "network") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.network\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "network"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "other_device") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.other_device\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "other_device"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "physical_disk") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.physical_disk\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "physical_disk"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "power_supply") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.power_supply\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "power_supply"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "robotics") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.robotics\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "robotics"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "tape_drive") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.tape_drive\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "tape_drive"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "temperature") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.temperature.*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "temperature"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "vm") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.vm\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "vm"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "voltage") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.voltage.*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "voltage"
```

This transformer dynamically sets the attributes required for BMC Helix based on metric names and resource attributes.

Commit message:

[exporter/bmchelix] New component: BMC Helix Exporter
* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Bertrand Martin <32521698+bertysentry@users.noreply.github.com>

exporter/bmchelixexporter/README.md, after:

# BMC Helix Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fbmchelix%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fbmchelix) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fbmchelix%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fbmchelix) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@bertysentry](https://www.github.com/bertysentry), [@NassimBtk](https://www.github.com/NassimBtk) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#development
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This exporter supports sending metrics to [BMC Helix Operations Management](https://www.bmc.com/it-solutions/bmc-helix-operations-management.html) through its [metric ingestion REST API](https://docs.bmc.com/docs/helixoperationsmanagement/244/en/metric-operation-management-endpoints-in-the-rest-api-1392780044.html).

## Getting Started

The following settings are **required**:

- `endpoint`: is the *BMC Helix Portal URL* of your environment, at **onbmc.com** for a BMC Helix SaaS tenant (e.g., `https://company.onbmc.com`), or your own Helix Portal URL for an on-prem instance.
- `api_key`: API key to authenticate the exporter. Connect to BMC Helix Operations Management, go to the Administration > Repository page, and click on the Copy API Key button to get your API Key. Alternatively, it is recommended to create and use a dedicated [authentication key for external integration](https://docs.bmc.com/docs/helixportal244/using-api-keys-for-external-integrations-1391501992.html).

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  bmchelix/helix1:
    endpoint: https://company.onbmc.com
    api_key: <api-key>
```

### Optional Settings

The following settings can be **optionally configured**:

- `timeout`: (default = `10s`) Timeout for requests made to the BMC Helix.
- `retry_on_failure` [details here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/exporterhelper#configuration)
  - `enabled` (default = true)
  - `initial_interval` (default = 5s) Time to wait after the first failure before retrying; ignored if `enabled` is false.
  - `max_interval` (default = 30s) The upper bound on backoff; ignored if `enabled` is false.
  - `max_elapsed_time` (default = 300s) The maximum amount of time spent trying to send a batch; ignored if `enabled` is false. If set to 0, the retries are never stopped.
- `resource_to_telemetry_conversion`: [details here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/resourcetotelemetry#configuration)
  - `enabled` (default = true): If enabled is true, all the resource attributes will be converted to metric labels by default.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  bmchelix/helix2:
    endpoint: https://company.onbmc.com
    api_key: <api-key>
    timeout: 20s
    retry_on_failure:
      enabled: true
      initial_interval: 5s
      max_interval: 1m
      max_elapsed_time: 8m
    resource_to_telemetry_conversion:
      enabled: true
```

### Resource to Telemetry Conversion

To ensure resource attributes (e.g., `host.name`) are available for all metrics, keep `resource_to_telemetry_conversion` enabled by default. Disabling it will remove resource attributes from metrics unless explicitly configured.

---

## Setting Required Attributes for Metrics

To ensure metrics are correctly populated in BMC Helix, the following attributes must be set either at the *Resource* level, or at the *Metric* level:  

- `entityName`: Unique identifier for the entity. Used as display name if `instanceName` is missing.
- `entityTypeId`: Type identifier for the entity.
- `instanceName`: Display name of the entity.

> **Note:** If `entityName` or `entityTypeId` is missing, the metric will not be exported.

To ensure the necessary attributes are present, it is recommended to leverage the [transform processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/transformprocessor) with [OTTL](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/pkg/ottl), and include it in the configuration of the telemetry pipeline.

The minimal pipeline most often looks like: `OTEL metrics --> (batch/memory limit) --> transform processor --> bmchelix exporter`.

### Transformer Example for Hardware Metrics

You can use the following OpenTelemetry Transformation Language (OTTL) configuration to map these attributes dynamically:

```yaml
  transform/hw_to_helix:
   # Apply transformations to all metrics
    metric_statements:

      - context: datapoint
        statements:
          # Create a new attribute 'entityName' with the value of 'id'
          - set(attributes["entityName"], attributes["id"]) where attributes["id"] != nil
          # Create a new attribute 'instanceName' with the value of 'name'
          - set(attributes["instanceName"], attributes["name"]) where attributes["name"] != nil

      - context: datapoint
        conditions:
          - IsMatch(metric.name, ".*\\.agent\\..*")
        statements:
          - set(attributes["entityName"], attributes["host.id"]) where attributes["host.id"] != nil
          - set(attributes["instanceName"], attributes["service.name"]) where attributes["service.name"] != nil
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "agent")

      - context: datapoint
        statements:
          # Mapping entityTypeId based on metric names and attributes
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "connector") where IsMatch(metric.name, ".*\\.connector\\..*")
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "host") where IsMatch(metric.name, ".*\\.host\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "host"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "battery") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.battery\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "battery"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "blade") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.blade\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "blade"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "cpu") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.cpu\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "cpu"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "disk_controller") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.disk_controller\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "disk_controller"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "enclosure") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.enclosure\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "enclosure"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "fan") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.fan\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "fan"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "gpu") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.gpu\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "gpu"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "led") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.led\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "led"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "logical_disk") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.logical_disk\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "logical_disk"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "lun") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.lun\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "lun"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "memory") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.memory\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "memory"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "network") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.network\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "network"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "other_device") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.other_device\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "other_device"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "physical_disk") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.physical_disk\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "physical_disk"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "power_supply") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.power_supply\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "power_supply"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "robotics") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.robotics\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "robotics"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "tape_drive") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.tape_drive\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "tape_drive"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "temperature") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.temperature.*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "temperature"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "vm") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.vm\\..*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "vm"
          - set(attributes["entityTypeId"], "voltage") where IsMatch(metric.name, "hw\\.voltage.*") or attributes["hw.type"] == "voltage"
```

This transformer dynamically sets the attributes required for BMC Helix based on metric names and resource attributes.
