receiver/googlecloudmonitoringreceiver/README.md, before:

# Google Cloud Monitoring Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fgooglecloudmonitoring%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fgooglecloudmonitoring) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fgooglecloudmonitoring%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fgooglecloudmonitoring) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dashpole](https://www.github.com/dashpole), [@TylerHelmuth](https://www.github.com/TylerHelmuth), [@abhishek-at-cloudwerx](https://www.github.com/abhishek-at-cloudwerx) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The primary objective of the Google Cloud Monitoring Receiver is to gather time series metrics data from all Google services and convert this data into a pipeline format that facilitates further use.

This receiver gets GCP (Google Cloud Platform) metrics from [GCP Monitoring REST API] via the [Google SDK for GCP Metrics] and then convert those timeseries data into OTel Format [Pipeline Data].

[GCP Monitoring REST API]: https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/ref_v3/rest/v3/projects.timeSeries/list
[Google SDK for GCP Metrics]: https://pkg.go.dev/cloud.google.com/go/monitoring/apiv3
[Pipeline Data]: https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/pdata

## Configuration
The following configuration options are supported:

```yaml
receivers:
  googlecloudmonitoring:
    collection_interval: 2m # Can be specified in seconds (s), minutes (m), or hours (h)
    project_id: my-project-id
    metrics_list:
      - metric_name: "compute.googleapis.com/instance/cpu/usage_time"
      - metric_name: "connectors.googleapis.com/flex/instance/cpu/usage_time"
```

- `collection_interval` (Optional): The interval at which metrics are collected. Default is 300s.
- `initial_delay` (default = `1s`): defines how long this receiver waits before starting.
- `timeout`: (default = `1m`) The timeout of running commands against the GCP Monitoring REST API.
- `project_id` (Required): The GCP project ID.
- `metrics_list` (Required): A list of services metrics to monitor.

Each single metric can have the following configuration:

- `metric_name` (Required): The specific metric name to collect.


## Authentication with Google Cloud

For more details on authentication, refer to the Google Cloud [Application Default Credentials documentation](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/application-default-credentials). Note that if your workload is running on Google Cloud Platform (GCP), the service account credentials will be used automatically without needing to set the environment variable manually.

### Filtering

**Metrics Parameters** :

- A monitoring filter that specifies which time series should be returned. The filter must specify a single metric type. For example: `metric_name: "compute.googleapis.com/instance/cpu/usage_time"`

Commit message:

feat(googlecloudmonitoring): set minimum collection interval as 60 seconds

receiver/googlecloudmonitoringreceiver/README.md, after:

# Google Cloud Monitoring Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fgooglecloudmonitoring%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fgooglecloudmonitoring) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fgooglecloudmonitoring%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fgooglecloudmonitoring) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dashpole](https://www.github.com/dashpole), [@TylerHelmuth](https://www.github.com/TylerHelmuth), [@abhishek-at-cloudwerx](https://www.github.com/abhishek-at-cloudwerx) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The primary objective of the Google Cloud Monitoring Receiver is to gather time series metrics data from all Google services and convert this data into a pipeline format that facilitates further use.

This receiver gets GCP (Google Cloud Platform) metrics from [GCP Monitoring REST API] via the [Google SDK for GCP Metrics] and then convert those timeseries data into OTel Format [Pipeline Data].

[GCP Monitoring REST API]: https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/ref_v3/rest/v3/projects.timeSeries/list
[Google SDK for GCP Metrics]: https://pkg.go.dev/cloud.google.com/go/monitoring/apiv3
[Pipeline Data]: https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/pdata

## Configuration
The following configuration options are supported:

```yaml
receivers:
  googlecloudmonitoring:
    collection_interval: 2m # Can be specified in seconds (s), minutes (m), or hours (h)
    project_id: my-project-id
    metrics_list:
      - metric_name: "compute.googleapis.com/instance/cpu/usage_time"
      - metric_name: "connectors.googleapis.com/flex/instance/cpu/usage_time"
```

- `collection_interval` (Optional): The interval at which metrics are collected. Default is 300s, minimum is 60s. Be careful of the [costs](https://cloud.google.com/stackdriver/pricing#monitoring-costs) and [quotas](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/quotas#api_quotas) when setting a low interval.
- `initial_delay` (default = `1s`): defines how long this receiver waits before starting.
- `timeout`: (default = `1m`) The timeout of running commands against the GCP Monitoring REST API.
- `project_id` (Required): The GCP project ID.
- `metrics_list` (Required): A list of services metrics to monitor.

Each single metric can have the following configuration:

- `metric_name` (Required): The specific metric name to collect.


## Authentication with Google Cloud

For more details on authentication, refer to the Google Cloud [Application Default Credentials documentation](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/application-default-credentials). Note that if your workload is running on Google Cloud Platform (GCP), the service account credentials will be used automatically without needing to set the environment variable manually.

### Filtering

**Metrics Parameters** :

- A monitoring filter that specifies which time series should be returned. The filter must specify a single metric type. For example: `metric_name: "compute.googleapis.com/instance/cpu/usage_time"`
