receiver/azuremonitorreceiver/README.md, before:

# Azure Monitor Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fazuremonitor%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fazuremonitor) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fazuremonitor%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fazuremonitor) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@nslaughter](https://www.github.com/nslaughter) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver scrapes Azure Monitor API for resources metrics.

## Configuration

The following settings are required:

- `subscription_id`

The following settings are optional:

- `auth` (default = service_principal): Specifies the used authentication method. Supported values are `service_principal`, `workload_identity`, `managed_identity`, `default_credentials`.
- `resource_groups` (default = none): Filter metrics for specific resource groups, not setting a value will scrape metrics for all resources in the subscription.
- `services` (default = none): Filter metrics for specific services, not setting a value will scrape metrics for all services integrated with Azure Monitor.
- `cache_resources` (default = 86400): List of resources will be cached for the provided amount of time in seconds.
- `cache_resources_definitions` (default = 86400): List of metrics definitions will be cached for the provided amount of time in seconds.
- `maximum_number_of_metrics_in_a_call` (default = 20): Maximum number of metrics to fetch in per API call, current limit in Azure is 20 (as of 03/27/2023).
- `maximum_number_of_records_per_resource` (default = 10): Maximum number of records to fetch per resource.
- `initial_delay` (default = `1s`): defines how long this receiver waits before starting.
- `cloud` (default = `AzureCloud`): defines which Azure cloud to use. Valid values: `AzureCloud`, `AzureUSGovernment`, `AzureChinaCloud`.

Authenticating using service principal requires following additional settings:

- `tenant_id`
- `client_id`
- `client_secret`

Authenticating using workload identities requires following additional settings:

- `tenant_id`
- `client_id`
- `federate_token_file`

Authenticating using managed identities has the following optional settings:

- `client_id`

### Example Configurations

Using [Service Principal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#service-principal-with-a-secret) for authentication:

```yaml
receivers:
  azuremonitor:
    subscription_id: "${subscription_id}"
    tenant_id: "${tenant_id}"
    client_id: "${client_id}"
    client_secret: "${env:CLIENT_SECRET}"
    cloud: AzureUSGovernment
    resource_groups:
      - "${resource_group1}"
      - "${resource_group2}"
    services:
      - "${service1}"
      - "${service2}"
    collection_interval: 60s
    initial_delay: 1s
```

Using [Azure Workload Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#option-2-use-workload-identity) for authentication:

```yaml
receivers:
  azuremonitor:
    subscription_id: "${subscription_id}"
    auth: "workload_identity"
    tenant_id: "${env:AZURE_TENANT_ID}"
    client_id: "${env:AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
    federated_token_file: "${env:AZURE_FEDERATED_TOKEN_FILE}"
```

Using [Managed Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#option-3-use-a-managed-identity) for authentication:

```yaml
receivers:
  azuremonitor:
    subscription_id: "${subscription_id}"
    auth: "managed_identity"
    client_id: "${env:AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
```

Using [Environment Variables](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#option-1-define-environment-variables) for authentication:

```yaml
receivers:
  azuremonitor:
    subscription_id: "${subscription_id}"
    auth: "default_credentials"
```


## Metrics

Details about the metrics scraped by this receiver can be found in [Supported metrics with Azure Monitor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported). This receiver adds the prefix "azure_" to all scraped metrics.

Commit message:

[receiver/azuremonitorreceiver] feat: multi subscriptions support and automatic discovery
Signed-off-by: Célian Garcia <celian.garcia@amadeus.com>

receiver/azuremonitorreceiver/README.md, after:

# Azure Monitor Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fazuremonitor%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fazuremonitor) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fazuremonitor%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fazuremonitor) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@nslaughter](https://www.github.com/nslaughter) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver scrapes Azure Monitor API for resources metrics.

## Configuration

The following settings are required:

- `subscription_ids`: list of subscriptions on which the resource's metrics are collected
- or `subscriptions_id`: same as `subscription_ids` but not a list
- or `discover_subscriptions`: (default = `false`) If set to true, will collect metrics from all subscriptions in the tenant.

The following settings are optional:

- `auth` (default = service_principal): Specifies the used authentication method. Supported values are `service_principal`, `workload_identity`, `managed_identity`, `default_credentials`.
- `resource_groups` (default = none): Filter metrics for specific resource groups, not setting a value will scrape metrics for all resources in the subscription.
- `services` (default = none): Filter metrics for specific services, not setting a value will scrape metrics for all services integrated with Azure Monitor.
- `cache_resources` (default = 86400): List of resources will be cached for the provided amount of time in seconds.
- `cache_resources_definitions` (default = 86400): List of metrics definitions will be cached for the provided amount of time in seconds.
- `maximum_number_of_metrics_in_a_call` (default = 20): Maximum number of metrics to fetch in per API call, current limit in Azure is 20 (as of 03/27/2023).
- `maximum_number_of_records_per_resource` (default = 10): Maximum number of records to fetch per resource.
- `initial_delay` (default = `1s`): defines how long this receiver waits before starting.
- `cloud` (default = `AzureCloud`): defines which Azure cloud to use. Valid values: `AzureCloud`, `AzureUSGovernment`, `AzureChinaCloud`.

Authenticating using service principal requires following additional settings:

- `tenant_id`
- `client_id`
- `client_secret`

Authenticating using workload identities requires following additional settings:

- `tenant_id`
- `client_id`
- `federate_token_file`

Authenticating using managed identities has the following optional settings:

- `client_id`

### Example Configurations

Using [Service Principal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#service-principal-with-a-secret) for authentication:

```yaml
receivers:
  azuremonitor:
    subscription_id: "${subscription_id}"
    tenant_id: "${tenant_id}"
    client_id: "${client_id}"
    client_secret: "${env:CLIENT_SECRET}"
    cloud: AzureUSGovernment
    resource_groups:
      - "${resource_group1}"
      - "${resource_group2}"
    services:
      - "${service1}"
      - "${service2}"
    collection_interval: 60s
    initial_delay: 1s
```

Using [Azure Workload Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#option-2-use-workload-identity) for authentication:

```yaml
receivers:
  azuremonitor:
    subscription_id: "${subscription_id}"
    auth: "workload_identity"
    tenant_id: "${env:AZURE_TENANT_ID}"
    client_id: "${env:AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
    federated_token_file: "${env:AZURE_FEDERATED_TOKEN_FILE}"
```

Using [Managed Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#option-3-use-a-managed-identity) for authentication:

```yaml
receivers:
  azuremonitor:
    subscription_id: "${subscription_id}"
    auth: "managed_identity"
    client_id: "${env:AZURE_CLIENT_ID}"
```

Using [Environment Variables](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/go/azure-sdk-authentication?tabs=bash#option-1-define-environment-variables) for authentication:

```yaml
receivers:
  azuremonitor:
    subscription_id: "${subscription_id}"
    auth: "default_credentials"
```


## Metrics

Details about the metrics scraped by this receiver can be found in [Supported metrics with Azure Monitor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-supported). This receiver adds the prefix "azure_" to all scraped metrics.
