exporter/awss3exporter/README.md, before:

# AWS S3 Exporter for OpenTelemetry Collector

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fawss3%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fawss3) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fawss3%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fawss3) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@atoulme](https://www.github.com/atoulme), [@pdelewski](https://www.github.com/pdelewski) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Schema supported
This exporter targets to support proto/json format.

## Exporter Configuration

The following exporter configuration parameters are supported. 

| Name           | Description                                                                                          | Default     |
|:---------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| `region`       | AWS region.                                                                                          | "us-east-1" |
| `s3_bucket`    | S3 bucket                                                                                            |             |
| `s3_prefix`    | prefix for the S3 key (root directory inside bucket).                                                |             |
| `s3_partition` | time granularity of S3 key: hour or minute                                                           | "minute"    |
| `file_prefix`  | file prefix defined by user                                                                          |             |
| `marshaler`    | marshaler used to produce output data otlp_json                                                      |             |
| `endpoint`     | overrides the endpoint used by the exporter instead of constructing it from `region` and `s3_bucket` |             |

# Example Configuration

Following example configuration defines to store output in 'eu-central' region and bucket named 'databucket'.

```yaml
exporters:
  awss3:
    s3uploader:
        region: 'eu-central-1'
        s3_bucket: 'databucket'
        s3_prefix: 'metric'
        s3_partition: 'minute'
```

Logs and traces will be stored inside 'databucket' in the following path format.

```console
metric/year=XXXX/month=XX/day=XX/hour=XX/minute=XX
```

## AWS Credential Configuration

This exporter follows default credential resolution for the
[aws-sdk-go](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/index.html).

Follow the [guidelines](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/v1/developer-guide/configuring-sdk.html) for the
credential configuration.

Commit message:

[awss3exporter]: add Sumo Logic marshaler for logs in Installed Collector format (#23649)
**Description:** This PR adds a new marshaller for `awss3` exporter. It
exports logs in the format of Sumo Logic Installed Collector. Metrics
and traces are not supported - creating an exporter for them will result
in an error.
Currently, nested typed (eg. map inside a map) might not be supported
correctly - I have to confirm the IC's behavior with them, but I wanted
to create the PR so that it can be reviewed early.

**Link to tracking Issue:** #23212

**Testing:** Unit tests and manual e2e tests. Some automatic e2e tests
will come later, but they will not be part of this repo, they will be a
test for integrating the ingest with Sumo Logic's backend.

**Documentation:** Readme updated.

---------

Signed-off-by: Katarzyna Kujawa <kkujawa@sumologic.com>
Co-authored-by: Katarzyna Kujawa <kkujawa@sumologic.com>

exporter/awss3exporter/README.md, after:

# AWS S3 Exporter for OpenTelemetry Collector

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [observiq], [sumo] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fawss3%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fawss3) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fawss3%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fawss3) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@atoulme](https://www.github.com/atoulme), [@pdelewski](https://www.github.com/pdelewski) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
[sumo]: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Schema supported
This exporter targets to support proto/json format.

## Exporter Configuration

The following exporter configuration parameters are supported. 

| Name           | Description                                                                                          | Default     |
|:---------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| `region`       | AWS region.                                                                                          | "us-east-1" |
| `s3_bucket`    | S3 bucket                                                                                            |             |
| `s3_prefix`    | prefix for the S3 key (root directory inside bucket).                                                |             |
| `s3_partition` | time granularity of S3 key: hour or minute                                                           | "minute"    |
| `file_prefix`  | file prefix defined by user                                                                          |             |
| `marshaler`    | marshaler used to produce output data                                                                | `otlp_json` |
| `endpoint`     | overrides the endpoint used by the exporter instead of constructing it from `region` and `s3_bucket` |             |

### Marshaler

Marshaler determines the format of data sent to AWS S3. Currently, the following marshalers are implemented:

- `otlp_json` (default): the [OpenTelemetry Protocol format](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto), represented as json.
- `sumo_ic`: the [Sumo Logic Installed Collector Archive format](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/data-archiving/archive/).
  **This format is supported only for logs.**

# Example Configuration

Following example configuration defines to store output in 'eu-central' region and bucket named 'databucket'.

```yaml
exporters:
  awss3:
    s3uploader:
        region: 'eu-central-1'
        s3_bucket: 'databucket'
        s3_prefix: 'metric'
        s3_partition: 'minute'
```

Logs and traces will be stored inside 'databucket' in the following path format.

```console
metric/year=XXXX/month=XX/day=XX/hour=XX/minute=XX
```

## AWS Credential Configuration

This exporter follows default credential resolution for the
[aws-sdk-go](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/index.html).

Follow the [guidelines](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/v1/developer-guide/configuring-sdk.html) for the
credential configuration.
