exporter/zipkinexporter/README.md, before:

# Zipkin Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib], [observiq] |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Exports data to a [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/) back-end.
By default, this exporter requires TLS and offers queued retry capabilities.

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (no default): URL to which the exporter is going to send Zipkin trace data.
- `format` (default = `JSON`): The format to sent events in. Can be set to `JSON` or `proto`.

By default, TLS is enabled and must be configured under `tls:`:

- `insecure` (default = `false`): whether to enable client transport security for
  the exporter's connection.

As a result, the following parameters are also required under `tls:`:

- `cert_file` (no default): path to the TLS cert to use for TLS required connections. Should
  only be used if `insecure` is set to false.
- `key_file` (no default): path to the TLS key to use for TLS required connections. Should
  only be used if `insecure` is set to false.

The following settings are optional:

- `defaultservicename` (default = `<missing service name>`): What to name
  services missing this information.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  zipkin:
    endpoint: "http://some.url:9411/api/v2/spans"
    tls:
      cert_file: file.cert
      key_file: file.key
  zipkin/2:
    endpoint: "http://some.url:9411/api/v2/spans"
    tls:
      insecure: true
```

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Queuing, retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)

Commit message:

[chore] [exporter/zipkin] fix configuration docs (#22703)
Corrected some invalid docs in README:
- the `format` property is optional, not required
- corrected `defaultservicename` to `default_service_name`
- TLS is not enabled by default; it depends on the protocol scheme in the endpoint
- `insecure` property does not enable/disable TLS for HTTP connections
- the `cert_file` and `key_file` parameters are not required
- fixed the example configurations in docs and in tests

exporter/zipkinexporter/README.md, after:

# Zipkin Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces   |
| Distributions | [core], [contrib], [observiq] |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[core]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[observiq]: https://github.com/observIQ/observiq-otel-collector
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Exports data to a [Zipkin](https://zipkin.io/) back-end.
By default, this exporter requires TLS and offers queued retry capabilities.

## Getting Started

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (no default): URL to which the exporter is going to send Zipkin trace data. For example: `http://localhost:9411/api/v2/spans`.

The following settings are optional:

- `format` (default = `json`): The format to sent events in. Can be set to `json` or `proto`.
- `default_service_name` (default = `<missing service name>`): What to name
  services missing this information.

To use TLS, specify `https://` as the protocol scheme in the URL passed to the `endpoint` property.
See [Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration) for more TLS options.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  zipkin/nontls:
    endpoint: "http://some.url:9411/api/v2/spans"
    format: proto
    default_service_name: unknown-service

  zipkin/withtls:
    endpoint: "https://some.url:9411/api/v2/spans"

  zipkin/tlsnoverify:
    endpoint: "https://some.url:9411/api/v2/spans"
    tls:
      insecure_skip_verify: true
```

## Advanced Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [HTTP client settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/confighttp/README.md#client-configuration)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Queuing, retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
