exporter/tanzuobservabilityexporter/README.md, before:

# Tanzu Observability (Wavefront) Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: traces, metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Ftanzuobservability%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Ftanzuobservability) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Ftanzuobservability%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Ftanzuobservability) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@oppegard](https://www.github.com/oppegard), [@thepeterstone](https://www.github.com/thepeterstone), [@keep94](https://www.github.com/keep94) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This exporter supports sending metrics and traces to [Tanzu Observability](https://tanzu.vmware.com/observability).

## Prerequisites

- [Obtain the Tanzu Observability by Wavefront API token.](https://docs.wavefront.com/wavefront_api.html#generating-an-api-token)
- [Set up and start a Tanzu Observability by Wavefront proxy](https://docs.wavefront.com/proxies_installing.html) and
  configure it with the API token you obtained.
- To have the proxy generate [span RED metrics](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#red-metrics) from
  trace data, [configure](https://docs.wavefront.com/proxies_configuring.html) the proxy to receive traces by
  setting `customTracingListenerPorts=30001`. For metrics, the proxy listens on port 2878 by default.

## Configuration

Given a Wavefront proxy at 10.10.10.10 configured with `customTracingListenerPorts=30001`, a basic configuration of
the Tanzu Observability exporter follows:

```yaml
receivers:
  examplereceiver:

processors:
  batch:
    timeout: 10s

exporters:
  tanzuobservability:
    traces:
      endpoint: "http://10.10.10.10:30001"
    metrics:
      endpoint: "http://10.10.10.10:2878"

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [ examplereceiver ]
      processors: [ batch ]
      exporters: [ tanzuobservability ]
    metrics:
      receivers: [ examplereceiver ]
      processors: [ batch ]
      exporters: [ tanzuobservability ]
```

## Advanced Configuration

### Resource Attributes on Metrics

Client programs using an OpenTelemetry SDK can be configured to wrap all emitted telemetry (metrics, spans, logs) with
a set of global key-value pairs,
called [resource attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/resource/sdk.md)
.
By default, the Tanzu Observability Exporter includes resource attributes on spans but _excludes_ them on metrics. To
include resource attributes as tags on metrics, set the flag `resource_attrs_included` to `true` as per the example
below.

**Note:** Tanzu Observability has a 254-character limit on tag key-value pairs. If a resource attribute exceeds this
limit, the metric will not show up in Tanzu Observability.

### Application Resource Attributes on Metrics

The Tanzu Observability Exporter will
include [application resource attributes](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#application-tags) on
metrics (`application`, `service.name`
, `cluster`, and `shard`). To exclude these resource
attributes as tags on metrics, set the flag `app_tags_excluded` to `true` as per the example
below.

**Note:** A tag `service.name`(if provided) becomes `service` on the transformed wavefront metric. However, if both the
tags (`service` & `service.name`) are provided then the `service` tag will be included.

### Queuing and Retries

This exporter uses OpenTelemetry Collector helpers to queue data and retry on failures.

* `retry_on_failure` [Details and defaults here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md#configuration)
  .
* `sending_queue` [Details and defaults here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md#configuration)

### Recommended Pipeline Processors

The memory_limiter processor is recommended to prevent out of memory situations on the collector. It allows performing
periodic checks of memory usage – if it exceeds defined limits it will begin dropping data and forcing garbage
collection to reduce memory
consumption. [Details and defaults here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/processor/memorylimiterprocessor/README.md)
.

**Note:** The order matters when enabling multiple processors in a pipeline (e.g. the memory limiter and batch
processors in the example config below). Please refer to the
processors' [documentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor)
for more information.

### Example Advanced Configuration

```yaml
receivers:
  examplereceiver:

processors:
  memory_limiter:
    check_interval: 1s
    limit_percentage: 50
    spike_limit_percentage: 30
  batch:
    timeout: 10s

exporters:
  tanzuobservability:
    traces:
      endpoint: "http://10.10.10.10:30001"
    metrics:
      endpoint: "http://10.10.10.10:2878"
      resource_attrs_included: true
      app_tags_excluded: true
    retry_on_failure:
      max_elapsed_time: 3m
    sending_queue:
      queue_size: 10000

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [ examplereceiver ]
      processors: [ memory_limiter, batch ]
      exporters: [ tanzuobservability ]
    metrics:
      receivers: [ examplereceiver ]
      processors: [ memory_limiter, batch ]
      exporters: [ tanzuobservability ]
```

## Attributes Required by Tanzu Observability

### Source

A `source` field is required in Tanzu
Observability [spans](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#span-fields)
and [metrics](https://docs.wavefront.com/wavefront_data_format.html#wavefront-data-format-fields). The source is set to
the
first matching OpenTelemetry Resource Attribute:

1. `source`
2. `host.name`
3. `hostname`
4. `host.id`

To reduce duplicate data, the matched attribute is excluded from the tags on the exported Tanzu Observability span or
metric.
If none of the above resource attributes exist, the OpenTelemetry Collector's hostname is used as a fallback for source.

### Application Identity Tags on Spans

[Application identity tags](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#how-wavefront-uses-application-tags) of
`application` and `service` are required for all spans in Tanzu Observability.

- `application` is set to the value of the attribute `application` on the OpenTelemetry Span or Resource. Default is "
  defaultApp".
- `service` is set the value of the attribute `service` or `service.name` on the OpenTelemetry Span or Resource. Default
  is "defaultService".

## Data Conversion for Traces

- Trace IDs and Span IDs are converted to UUIDs. For example, span IDs are left-padded with zeros to fit the correct
  size.
- Events are converted to [Span Logs](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#span-logs).
- Kind is converted to the `span.kind` tag.
- If a Span's status code is error, a tag of `error=true` is added. If the status also has a description, it's set
  to `otel.status_description`.
- TraceState is converted to the `w3c.tracestate` tag.

## Data Conversion for Metrics

This section describes the process used by the Exporter when converting from
[OpenTelemetry Metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/metrics/datamodel) to
[Tanzu Observability by Wavefront Metrics](https://docs.wavefront.com/metric_types.html).

| OpenTelemetry Metric Type | Wavefront Metric Type | Notes |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Gauge | Gauge |
| Cumulative Sum | Cumulative Counter |
| Delta Sum | Delta Counter |
| Cumulative Histogram (incl. Exponential) | Cumulative Counters | [Details below](#cumulative-histogram-conversion-incl-exponential). |
| Delta Histogram (incl. Exponential) | Histogram |
| Summary | Gauges | [Details below](#summary-conversion).

### Cumulative Histogram Conversion (incl. Exponential)

A cumulative histogram is converted to multiple counter metrics: one counter per bucket in the histogram. Each counter
has a special "le" tag that matches the upper bound of the corresponding bucket. The value of the counter metric is the
sum of the histogram's corresponding bucket and all the buckets before it.

When working with OpenTelemetry Cumulative Histograms that have been converted to Wavefront Counters, these functions
will be of use:

- [cumulativeHisto()](https://docs.wavefront.com/ts_cumulativeHisto.html)
- [cumulativePercentile()](https://docs.wavefront.com/ts_cumulativePercentile.html)

#### Example

Suppose a cumulative histogram named "http.response_times" has
the following buckets and values:

| Bucket | Value |
| ------ | ----- |
| &le; 100ms | 5 |
| &gt; 100ms to &le; 200ms | 20 |
| &gt; 200ms | 100 |

The exporter sends the following metrics to tanzuobservability:

| Name | Tags | Value |
| ---- | ---- | ----- |
| http.response_times | le="100" | 5 |
| http.response_times | le="200" | 25 |
| http.response_times | le="+Inf"  | 125 |

#### Example WQL Query on a Cumulative Histogram

Using the cumulative histogram from the section above, this WQL query will produce a graph showing
the 95th percentile of http response times in the last 15 minutes.

```
cumulativePercentile(95, mavg(15m, deriv(sum(ts(http.reponse_times), le))))
```

The sum function aggregates the http response times and groups them by the le tag. Since
http.response_times has three buckets, the sum() function will graph three lines, one for each bucket.
deriv() shows the per second rate of change in the three lines from sum. The mavg function averages
the rates of change of the three lines over the last 15 minutes. Since the rates of change are per
second, if you multiply the average rate of change for a bucket by 900, you get the number of new
http requests falling into that bucket in the last 15 minutes. Finally, cumulativePercentile
uses the values of the `le` tags, which are http response times, and linear interpolation of the
bucket counts to estimate the 95th percentile of http.response_times over the last 15 minutes.

### Summary Conversion

A summary is converted to multiple gauge metrics: one gauge for every quantile in the summary. A special "quantile" tag
contains avalue between 0 and 1 indicating the quantile for which the value belongs.

[beta]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta

[contrib]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib

Commit message:

[exporter/tanzuobservability] Deprecate Tanzu Observability (Wavefront) Exporter (#25904)
The Tanzu Observability (Wavefront) Proxy has support for ingesting
traces and metrics via OTLP, so the vendor specific exporter is no
longer needed. This PR adds a deprecation message.

**Link to tracking Issue:**
#24225

**Documentation:**
Readme updated with deprecation notice and link to migration
documentation.

exporter/tanzuobservabilityexporter/README.md, after:

# Deprecated Tanzu Observability (Wavefront) Exporter

> [!WARNING]
> Tanzu Observability (Wavefront) Proxy v11.3  supports native OpenTelemetry protocol (OTLP) ingestion of traces and metrics, released in June 2022.
> This vendor specific exporter is deprecated and will become unavailable after the end of 2023. 
> 
> Refer to our [documentation](https://docs.wavefront.com/opentelemetry_overview.html) for configuring the Proxy to receive traces and metrics via OTLP gRPC or OTLP HTTP.
>


<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [deprecated]: traces, metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Ftanzuobservability%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Ftanzuobservability) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Ftanzuobservability%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Ftanzuobservability) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@oppegard](https://www.github.com/oppegard), [@thepeterstone](https://www.github.com/thepeterstone), [@keep94](https://www.github.com/keep94) |

[deprecated]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#deprecated
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->


This exporter supports sending metrics and traces to [Tanzu Observability](https://tanzu.vmware.com/observability).

## Prerequisites

- [Obtain the Tanzu Observability by Wavefront API token.](https://docs.wavefront.com/wavefront_api.html#generating-an-api-token)
- [Set up and start a Tanzu Observability by Wavefront proxy](https://docs.wavefront.com/proxies_installing.html) and
  configure it with the API token you obtained.
- To have the proxy generate [span RED metrics](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#red-metrics) from
  trace data, [configure](https://docs.wavefront.com/proxies_configuring.html) the proxy to receive traces by
  setting `customTracingListenerPorts=30001`. For metrics, the proxy listens on port 2878 by default.

## Configuration

Given a Wavefront proxy at 10.10.10.10 configured with `customTracingListenerPorts=30001`, a basic configuration of
the Tanzu Observability exporter follows:

```yaml
receivers:
  examplereceiver:

processors:
  batch:
    timeout: 10s

exporters:
  tanzuobservability:
    traces:
      endpoint: "http://10.10.10.10:30001"
    metrics:
      endpoint: "http://10.10.10.10:2878"

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [ examplereceiver ]
      processors: [ batch ]
      exporters: [ tanzuobservability ]
    metrics:
      receivers: [ examplereceiver ]
      processors: [ batch ]
      exporters: [ tanzuobservability ]
```

## Advanced Configuration

### Resource Attributes on Metrics

Client programs using an OpenTelemetry SDK can be configured to wrap all emitted telemetry (metrics, spans, logs) with
a set of global key-value pairs,
called [resource attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/resource/sdk.md)
.
By default, the Tanzu Observability Exporter includes resource attributes on spans but _excludes_ them on metrics. To
include resource attributes as tags on metrics, set the flag `resource_attrs_included` to `true` as per the example
below.

**Note:** Tanzu Observability has a 254-character limit on tag key-value pairs. If a resource attribute exceeds this
limit, the metric will not show up in Tanzu Observability.

### Application Resource Attributes on Metrics

The Tanzu Observability Exporter will
include [application resource attributes](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#application-tags) on
metrics (`application`, `service.name`
, `cluster`, and `shard`). To exclude these resource
attributes as tags on metrics, set the flag `app_tags_excluded` to `true` as per the example
below.

**Note:** A tag `service.name`(if provided) becomes `service` on the transformed wavefront metric. However, if both the
tags (`service` & `service.name`) are provided then the `service` tag will be included.

### Queuing and Retries

This exporter uses OpenTelemetry Collector helpers to queue data and retry on failures.

* `retry_on_failure` [Details and defaults here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md#configuration)
  .
* `sending_queue` [Details and defaults here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md#configuration)

### Recommended Pipeline Processors

The memory_limiter processor is recommended to prevent out of memory situations on the collector. It allows performing
periodic checks of memory usage – if it exceeds defined limits it will begin dropping data and forcing garbage
collection to reduce memory
consumption. [Details and defaults here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/processor/memorylimiterprocessor/README.md)
.

**Note:** The order matters when enabling multiple processors in a pipeline (e.g. the memory limiter and batch
processors in the example config below). Please refer to the
processors' [documentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor)
for more information.

### Example Advanced Configuration

```yaml
receivers:
  examplereceiver:

processors:
  memory_limiter:
    check_interval: 1s
    limit_percentage: 50
    spike_limit_percentage: 30
  batch:
    timeout: 10s

exporters:
  tanzuobservability:
    traces:
      endpoint: "http://10.10.10.10:30001"
    metrics:
      endpoint: "http://10.10.10.10:2878"
      resource_attrs_included: true
      app_tags_excluded: true
    retry_on_failure:
      max_elapsed_time: 3m
    sending_queue:
      queue_size: 10000

service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [ examplereceiver ]
      processors: [ memory_limiter, batch ]
      exporters: [ tanzuobservability ]
    metrics:
      receivers: [ examplereceiver ]
      processors: [ memory_limiter, batch ]
      exporters: [ tanzuobservability ]
```

## Attributes Required by Tanzu Observability

### Source

A `source` field is required in Tanzu
Observability [spans](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#span-fields)
and [metrics](https://docs.wavefront.com/wavefront_data_format.html#wavefront-data-format-fields). The source is set to
the
first matching OpenTelemetry Resource Attribute:

1. `source`
2. `host.name`
3. `hostname`
4. `host.id`

To reduce duplicate data, the matched attribute is excluded from the tags on the exported Tanzu Observability span or
metric.
If none of the above resource attributes exist, the OpenTelemetry Collector's hostname is used as a fallback for source.

### Application Identity Tags on Spans

[Application identity tags](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#how-wavefront-uses-application-tags) of
`application` and `service` are required for all spans in Tanzu Observability.

- `application` is set to the value of the attribute `application` on the OpenTelemetry Span or Resource. Default is "
  defaultApp".
- `service` is set the value of the attribute `service` or `service.name` on the OpenTelemetry Span or Resource. Default
  is "defaultService".

## Data Conversion for Traces

- Trace IDs and Span IDs are converted to UUIDs. For example, span IDs are left-padded with zeros to fit the correct
  size.
- Events are converted to [Span Logs](https://docs.wavefront.com/trace_data_details.html#span-logs).
- Kind is converted to the `span.kind` tag.
- If a Span's status code is error, a tag of `error=true` is added. If the status also has a description, it's set
  to `otel.status_description`.
- TraceState is converted to the `w3c.tracestate` tag.

## Data Conversion for Metrics

This section describes the process used by the Exporter when converting from
[OpenTelemetry Metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/metrics/datamodel) to
[Tanzu Observability by Wavefront Metrics](https://docs.wavefront.com/metric_types.html).

| OpenTelemetry Metric Type | Wavefront Metric Type | Notes |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Gauge | Gauge |
| Cumulative Sum | Cumulative Counter |
| Delta Sum | Delta Counter |
| Cumulative Histogram (incl. Exponential) | Cumulative Counters | [Details below](#cumulative-histogram-conversion-incl-exponential). |
| Delta Histogram (incl. Exponential) | Histogram |
| Summary | Gauges | [Details below](#summary-conversion).

### Cumulative Histogram Conversion (incl. Exponential)

A cumulative histogram is converted to multiple counter metrics: one counter per bucket in the histogram. Each counter
has a special "le" tag that matches the upper bound of the corresponding bucket. The value of the counter metric is the
sum of the histogram's corresponding bucket and all the buckets before it.

When working with OpenTelemetry Cumulative Histograms that have been converted to Wavefront Counters, these functions
will be of use:

- [cumulativeHisto()](https://docs.wavefront.com/ts_cumulativeHisto.html)
- [cumulativePercentile()](https://docs.wavefront.com/ts_cumulativePercentile.html)

#### Example

Suppose a cumulative histogram named "http.response_times" has
the following buckets and values:

| Bucket | Value |
| ------ | ----- |
| &le; 100ms | 5 |
| &gt; 100ms to &le; 200ms | 20 |
| &gt; 200ms | 100 |

The exporter sends the following metrics to tanzuobservability:

| Name | Tags | Value |
| ---- | ---- | ----- |
| http.response_times | le="100" | 5 |
| http.response_times | le="200" | 25 |
| http.response_times | le="+Inf"  | 125 |

#### Example WQL Query on a Cumulative Histogram

Using the cumulative histogram from the section above, this WQL query will produce a graph showing
the 95th percentile of http response times in the last 15 minutes.

```
cumulativePercentile(95, mavg(15m, deriv(sum(ts(http.reponse_times), le))))
```

The sum function aggregates the http response times and groups them by the le tag. Since
http.response_times has three buckets, the sum() function will graph three lines, one for each bucket.
deriv() shows the per second rate of change in the three lines from sum. The mavg function averages
the rates of change of the three lines over the last 15 minutes. Since the rates of change are per
second, if you multiply the average rate of change for a bucket by 900, you get the number of new
http requests falling into that bucket in the last 15 minutes. Finally, cumulativePercentile
uses the values of the `le` tags, which are http response times, and linear interpolation of the
bucket counts to estimate the 95th percentile of http.response_times over the last 15 minutes.

### Summary Conversion

A summary is converted to multiple gauge metrics: one gauge for every quantile in the summary. A special "quantile" tag
contains avalue between 0 and 1 indicating the quantile for which the value belongs.

[beta]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#beta

[contrib]:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
